PART TWO  PERSONAL MEMORIES 
    Truth is a Pathless Land  (1931-47)  
第2部分 个人记忆
    真理是无路之国(1931-47) 
                   
13 A Cuckoo in the Other Bird's Nest 另一个鸟巢里的杜鹃

    During my early childhood Raja was in poor health. He had a series  of operations between which he had to spend much time travelling  on behalf of the work he was doing, editing and publishing Krishna's  talks, and organizing the immensely complicated camps for thousands  of people, at Ojai in the spring and at Ommen every summer. 
在我童年早期，拉贾身体不好。他有一系列的工作要做，其间他必须花很多时间出差，编辑和出版克里希纳的演讲，组织极其复杂的营地，为成千上万的人服务，春天在欧康，每年夏天在欧曼。

    Although endowed with a fine physique and natural fitness, unlike  Krishna who was compelled to spend a great portion of his life building  himself up physically, since his youth Raja had avoided any of the  precautions that would ensure continued good health. He disdained  exercise, drank too much coffee, led irregular hours and ate sporadically,  either too much or too little. He may well have been put off by the  almost ritualistic adherence to physical health measures that Krishna  insisted upon for himself and tried to instil in those close to him and  by Rosalind's insistence on a proper diet. But Raja had displayed a  rebellious disregard for his health long before meeting either of them,  as warnings in early letters to him from Leadbeater testify. 
虽然天生具有良好的体格和健康，但不像奎师那被迫花费大量时间来锻炼身体，拉贾从年轻时起就避免了任何可以确保持续健康的预防措施。他鄙视运动，喝太多咖啡，作息时间不规律，偶尔吃点东西，不是太多就是太少。克里希纳坚持自己的身体健康措施，并试图灌输给他身边的人，而罗莎琳德坚持适当的饮食，这几乎是一种仪式性的坚持，很可能是他推迟了这一计划。但拉贾早在见到他们两人之前就表现出了对自己健康的叛逆漠视，Leadbeater早期给他的信中就有警告。

    When Krishna returned to Ojai in October 1931, and first saw me  he surprised Rosalind by asking, ?(r)Do you think it is Nitya?' 
    He took me on with a fierce protectiveness, hovering like a lion over  my crib and never allowing any stranger to touch me. It was he and  not Raja who did all the things that most fathers of that era left to their  W1ves Or nurses. 
1931年10月，克里希纳回到奥康，第一次见到我时，他问罗莎琳德:“你认为那是妮提亚吗?”
他以一种强烈的保护态度对待我，像狮子一样在我的婴儿床上盘旋，从不允许任何陌生人碰我。是他，而不是拉贾做了那个时代大多数父亲留给他们的妻子或护士的所有事情。

    Rosalind divided her time between Krishna in Ojai and Raja, who  was recovering from a sinus operation, in Hollywood. Neither man  was left alone in her absence. Erma and Sophia took care of Raja and  one of the Star workers, Hazel Crowe, who lived in a small guest  house behind Arya Vihara, unobtrusively provided Krishna with his  meals when Rosalind wasn't there. 
罗莎琳德把时间分给了克里希纳和拉贾，后者刚从鼻窦手术中恢复过来，住在好莱坞。她不在的时候，两个男人都没有独处。埃尔玛和索菲亚照顾拉贾，而住在艾莉亚・维哈拉后面一间小招待所里的明星工人哈泽尔・克罗，在罗莎琳德不在家的时候，悄悄地为克里希纳提供饭菜。

    Besides the two men in Rosalind's life there was me, a few months'  old baby to take around with her and care for. It must have been easier  for her in Hollywood, in a well-heated house and with a mother and  sister to help. Arya Vihara still had no heat, only the fireplaces, and the cold, dark winter mornings in the large empty house were not entirely  pleasant. Krishna, however, was a warm and loving companion to her  and did his best to be helpful. He liked to tell me in later years exactly  how helpful he had been, changing my diapers, rocking my crib while  Rosalind had an afternoon siesta, giving me oil rubs in the warm midday  sun, being a true Indian amma or nurse, at least so he felt. There is no  doubt that he must have spent a considerable amount of time with me  for since my earliest memories he filled a special and unique place in  my heart, not as a parent but certainly as much more than a nurse. |  understood at a very young age that the depth and scope of affection  in our circle was not related to a kinship of blood or legal ties. 
除了罗莎琳德生活中的两个男人之外，还有我，一个需要她随身携带和照顾的几个月大的婴儿。对她来说，在好莱坞一定更容易些，有一个温暖的房子，有母亲和妹妹的帮助。艾莉亚・维哈拉仍然没有暖气，只有壁炉，在空荡荡的大房子里，寒冷、黑暗的冬天早晨并不完全令人愉快。然而，奎师那对她是一个温暖而慈爱的伴侣，并尽力帮助她。在后来的岁月里，他喜欢告诉我他到底帮了我多大的忙，给我换尿布，在罗莎琳德午睡的时候摇我的婴儿床，在正午温暖的阳光下给我擦油，他是一个真正的印度妈妈或护士，至少他是这么觉得的。毫无疑问，他一定花了相当多的时间和我在一起，因为从我最早的记忆开始，他就在我心中占据了一个特殊而独特的位置，不是作为父母，但肯定不仅仅是作为护士。我很小的时候就明白，在我们的圈子里，感情的深度和广度与血缘或法律关系无关。


    Officially for most of that winter of 1931, Krishna declared himself  to be in samadhi. A reporter had asked him if he were Christ and he  replied that he was ⌒ in the true sense; a somewhat puzzling admission  in one who wished to discourage followers, some of whom, including  Lady Emily, were beginning to wonder if his life were an escape from  responsibility, for he managed to live always in beautiful places without  facing the sort of problems that those who work hard to support their  families must face. 
在1931年冬天的大部分时间里，克里希纳都正式宣布自己处于三摩地状态。一个记者问他是否是基督，他回答说他是真正意义上的基督;有些人，包括埃米莉夫人在内，开始怀疑他的生活是不是在逃避责任，因为他设法一直住在美丽的地方，而不面临那些努力工作养家糊口的人必须面对的那种问题。

    Krishna replied that it was not an escape to avoid plunging into  unnecessary relationships, jealousies and ways of life. He had deliberately  avoided the entanglements of family, along with the necessity of earning  a living, though he still believed he could have made a lot of money - even as a beggar. This disclaimer of family existence would have baffled  any objective observer of his life over those next few months. 
奎师那回答说，避免陷入不必要的关系、嫉妒和生活方式并不是一种逃避。他故意避开家庭的纠缠，以及谋生的必要性，尽管他仍然相信他可以赚很多钱――即使是当一个乞丐。这种对家庭存在的否认会让任何客观观察他接下来几个月生活的人感到困惑。

    Spring came and with it the Ojai Camp. Suddenly Arya Vihara was  full of close friends, the excitement of hopefully uplifted spirits waiting  for Krishna's words. My mother slept in the large front bedroom and 1  in an attached glassed-in porch. Raja did not share these quarters when  in Ojai, but had similar rooms facing the lawn, separated by a long back  hallway. Krishna still slept, as he always would, in Pine Cottage. Arya  Vihara returned to monastic quietude at night, with Raja working as was  his habit well past midnight in his office, guests and devotees departing  at an early hour. 
春天来了，欧康营地也跟着来了。突然间，艾莉亚・维哈拉身边充满了亲密的朋友，满怀希望的精神兴奋地等待着奎师那的话语。我母亲睡在前面的大卧室里，我睡在旁边的玻璃门廊里。拉贾在奥康的时候没有共用这些房间，但也有类似的房间面向草坪，由一条长长的后走廊隔开。克里希纳仍然像往常一样睡在松树小屋里。夜晚，艾莉亚・维哈拉回到寺院的宁静中，拉贾像往常一样在办公室里工作到午夜之后，客人和奉献者很早就离开了。

    Krishna was particularly elated after his first talk that spring. There  would always be great ups and downs in the flow of his magnetic  power. Some people would come away from his talks shaking their  heads in wonder, unsure what he had actually said but quite bowled  over by it. Sometimes just one sentence would strike an individual and  open for him a vital new insight. But Krishna always knew when a talk had been particularly inspired. Even if he said afterwards, as he usually  did, ?(r)I don't remember anything about it, how was it??± we could tell  by the glow on his face, the private smile, that he knew exactly what  he had done and how his audience had taken it. As he grew older his  energy would lapse after a few hours and he would need to be alone for  a long rest, but when he was still young he was often too stimulated to  be alone. It was almost as if another self had awakened or come to life  in him. 
克里希纳在那年春天的第一次演讲后特别高兴。在他的磁力的流动中，总是会有很大的起伏。有些人听完他的演讲后会惊讶地摇着头，不确定他到底说了什么，但却被他的话所折服。有时，仅仅一句话就能打动一个人，为他打开一个重要的新见解。但克里希纳总是知道什么时候演讲特别受启发。即使他后来像往常一样说，“我什么都不记得了，那是怎么回事?”我们可以从他脸上的容光焕发和私密的微笑中看出，他清楚地知道自己做了什么，也知道他的听众是怎么看的。随着年龄的增长，他的精力会在几个小时后消失，他需要一个人休息很长时间，但当他还年轻的时候，他经常太兴奋了，不愿一个人呆着。就好像另一个自我在他身上苏醒了，或者活过来了。

    Rosalind remembered that first talk in the spring of 1932 for a reason  of her own. She remembered his excitement and restlessness when they  returned to Arya Vihara. He was full of laughter and sparkle as he went  off to his cottage, but when the big house had settled into darkness he  came back and into her bed. It was not comfort for a sick child that  he was seeking now. 
罗莎琳德记得1932年春天的第一次谈话是有她自己的原因的。她记得他们回到艾莉亚・维哈拉时他的兴奋和不安。他笑逐颜开地走回他的小屋，但当大房子陷入黑暗时，他又回到她的床上。他现在所寻求的并不是对一个生病的孩子的安慰。

    What followed then assumed all the force of the inevitable, though  at the time it took her by surprise. Yet she came to realize that he  had been playing the role of her own child's father for some months  and had lavished on her all the care and solicitude of a passionate and  fond husband ⌒ a role from which Raja appeared to have withdrawn,  enabling Rosalind to slip into a love affair that would last for more  than twenty-five years. 
随后发生的事情，虽然当时使她感到意外，但却具有了不可避免的全部力量。然而她开始意识到，几个月来，他一直在扮演她孩子父亲的角色，对她倾注了一个充满激情和慈爱的丈夫的所有关心和关怀――拉贾似乎已经退出了这个角色，使罗莎琳德陷入了一段持续了25年多的爱情。

    Assuming that he was aware of the condition of Rosalind and Raja's  marriage, and allowing for his unconventional attitude toward marriage  in general, that its vows had little meaning to him, Krishna's actions are  understandable, but not excusable in the context of his relationship with  Raja, who had given his life to helping him. Nor were they excusable in  the context of the chaste image he continued to project and was careful  not to tarnish, although it meant living a sub-rosa life. He would continue  to affirm publicly that true love does not distinguish between human  relationships but is boundlessly there for everyone. Yet privately over  the coming years, he would frequently and eloquently declare his love  to Rosalind and insist that ?(r)what 1s between us is the most important  thing in our lives'. 
假设他知道罗莎琳德和拉贾的婚姻状况，并考虑到他对婚姻的非常规态度，以及婚姻的誓言对他来说没有什么意义，克里希纳的行为是可以理解的，但在他与拉贾的关系中，他的行为是不可原谅的，拉贾献出了自己的生命来帮助他。在他继续塑造的纯洁形象的背景下，这些行为也不可原谅，他小心翼翼地不玷污自己的形象，尽管这意味着过着一种低俗的生活。他将继续公开宣称，真爱不分人与人之间的关系，而是无限地存在于每个人身上。然而，在接下来的几年里，私下里，他会频繁地、雄辩地向罗莎琳德表白他的爱，并坚持说:“我们之间的感情是我们生命中最重要的。”

    The miracle is that so few, if any, seemed to have suspected what was  going on. That this ?(r)perfect' being could have such a relationship would  have been a reductio ad absurdum to the Theosophists, who would have  been shocked enough had Krishna entered into a legitimate marriage,  and the new non-Theosophical followers would continue to place him  on a celibate pedestal. But there was at least one exception, Mme de  Manziarly, who in 1938 heard her daughter Mima say, ?(r)How charming  and sweet, the way Krishna loves Rosalind and helps her with Radha,' replied, ?(r)Hmmph! A cuckoo in the other bird's nest.?± Mima Porter told  me this in 1984, explaining that when her mother startled her with such  a comment she pushed it to the back of her mind and did not think  about it once until future events reminded her. 
令人惊奇的是，几乎没有人(如果有的话)怀疑发生了什么。对于神智学家来说，这个“完美”的存在可以有这样的关系是一种荒谬的简化，如果奎师那进入一个合法的婚姻，他们会感到震惊，而新的非神智学追随者会继续把他放在独身的基座上。但至少有一个例外，德・曼齐亚利夫人在1938年听到女儿米玛说:“克里希纳爱罗莎琳德的方式多么迷人，多么甜蜜，帮助她照顾罗达。”她回答说:“嗯!”一只布谷鸟在另一只鸟巢里。米玛・波特(Mima Porter)在1984年告诉我这一点，她解释说，当她母亲用这样的话吓了她一跳时，她把它抛到脑后，一次也没想过，直到未来的事情提醒她。

    Rosalind, too, had a natural aura of innocence which protected  her throughout her life from suspicion, at-least among her closest  friends. Even Raja suspected nothing until he was actually told twenty  years later. Yet the discomfort and sense of isolation that he would  feel increasingly to be his lot might well have been spawned in this  shadowed area of their lives. 
罗莎琳德也有一种天生的天真无邪的气质，这使她一生都没有受到怀疑，至少在她最亲密的朋友中间是这样。即使是拉贾也毫不怀疑，直到二十年后才被告知。然而，他越来越觉得自己命中注定的不适和孤立感，很可能就是在他们生活的这个阴影区产生的。

    At the age of thirty-seven, Krishna had experienced his first sexual  relationship, and, it 1s reasonable to believe, with someone he had  secretly loved for many years. The new and joyful exuberance that  he often expressed in those years was naturally taken by his followers  to reflect his transcendent spiritual condition, an expression of the  enlightened mystic, rather than of the happy lover. 
37岁时，克里希纳经历了他的第一次性关系，而且有理由相信，对象是他暗恋多年的人。在那些年里，他经常表现出新的、快乐的旺盛，他的追随者自然认为这反映了他超然的精神状态，是一个开明的神秘主义者的表现，而不是一个幸福的情人。

    In those early days, their times alone together were few. Rosalind  remembers one summer night, as she was sitting with Krishna on the  roof at Arya Vihara and looking at the starlight on his face, how she  was struck by the beauty of him as he told her of his love for her. She  had always been deeply moved by poetry and he was a natural poet. 
在最初的日子里，他们独处的时间很少。罗莎琳德记得一个夏天的晚上，她和克里希纳坐在艾莉亚维舍的屋顶上，看着他脸上的星光，当他告诉她他对她的爱时，她是如何被他的美丽所打动的。她一直被诗歌深深打动，而他是一个天生的诗人。

    Yet, when one loses through death a young, idealized and unrealized  love, it can stand in the way ofa complete love with another. Rosalind  would always feel that Nitya had been her special love; but that love  had never been consummated by so much as a kiss and would remain  a romantic ideal. Her love for Raja had been based on a solid bond of  friendship and perhaps she had not been totally dismayed when her  marriage was re-established on that basis. Krishna provided all that  was lacking in her marriage, physical love and the warm, attentive  companionship that she had not found with Raja. 
然而，当一个人因死亡而失去一份年轻的、理想化的、未实现的爱情时，它会阻碍与另一个人的完整的爱情。罗莎琳德会一直觉得妮提亚是她的挚爱;但是，这种爱从来没有通过一个吻来实现，而且仍然是一种浪漫的理想。她对拉贾的爱是建立在坚实的友谊基础上的，也许当她的婚姻在此基础上重新建立时，她并没有完全沮丧。奎师那提供了她在婚姻中所缺乏的一切，身体上的爱和温暖、体贴的陪伴，这是她在拉贾身上找不到的。

    While she and Raja would always feel a profound respect for each  other in their sharing of ideals and values, the trivial mechanics of  daily life had tended to pull them apart. She was a morning person;  he worked late and slept well into the morning. She was active and he  was sedentary. They did not share the same sense of humour. None of  these things alone was enough to destroy a marriage, but added to their  lack of physical love created a considerable void. As the years passed  Raja would become more and more the far point of the triangle. 
虽然她和拉贾在分享理想和价值观方面总是对彼此怀有深深的敬意，但日常生活中的琐碎机制往往会把他们分开。她是个早起的人;他工作到很晚，一直睡到早上。她很活跃，而他却久坐不动。他们没有相同的幽默感。这些都不足以摧毁一段婚姻，但加上他们缺乏身体上的爱，造成了相当大的空虚。随着时间的流逝，拉贾越来越成为这个三角的远点。

    Krishna and Raja returned to India in December 1932. They had not  seen Mrs Besant for two years. In spite of all the dissension between him and the Theosophists, Krishna was greeted warmly with garlands  and a welcoming committee and invited to lecture on the Compound.  Mrs Besant was in a sad state. Her memory was failing badly, but she  knew him and Raja and showed them great affection. Krishna felt quite  out of place now at Adyar, asserting that they did not want him  around. According to Rukmini, George Arundale had told Krishna he  was very welcome at Adyar, but if he could not refrain from making  fun of the Theosophists and being generally disruptive he should leave.  Krishna interpreted this as a definite shutting out and would continue  to make a point of this. 
1932年12月，克里希纳和拉贾回到印度。他们已经两年没见到贝赞特太太了。尽管克里希纳与神智学者之间存在着种种分歧，但他还是受到了热烈的欢迎，有人给他戴上花环，欢迎他的到来，并邀请他到大院演讲。贝赞特太太心情很不好。她的记忆力严重衰退，但她了解他和拉贾，并对他们表现出极大的感情。克里希纳现在在阿迪亚尔感到很不自在，声称他们不希望他在身边。据鲁克米尼说，乔治・阿伦代尔曾告诉奎师那，他在阿迪亚非常受欢迎，但如果他不能克制自己不取笑神智学者，不捣乱，他就应该离开。奎师那将此解释为一种明确的排斥，并将继续强调这一点。

    Throughout my childhood I would hear antagonistic comments about  George, not only from Krinsh but also in a milder way from those in  our circle who aligned themselves with Krinsh against the Theosophists  and also from those like the Logans who remained Theosophists but still  had a critical though never unkind attitude toward a few individuals. 1  suspect that all these attitudes stemmed from Krinsh's strong assertions  that George Arundale was responsible for his banishment from Adyar.  They never saw that this exile was brought on by his own behaviour  and was in fact self-imposed. 
在我的童年，我经常听到对乔治的敌对评论，不仅来自于克林什，也以一种温和的方式来自于我们圈子里那些与克林什结盟反对神智学者的人，也来自于那些像洛根这样的人，他们仍然是神智学者，但仍然对少数人持批评态度，尽管从来没有不友好的态度。我怀疑，所有这些态度都源于克林什的强烈主张，即乔治・阿伦代尔要为他被逐出阿迪亚负责。他们从来没有看到，这次流放是由他自己的行为造成的，实际上是他自己强加的。

    One day Jinarajadasa took Raja aside and mildly reprimanded him  for letting Krishna get so out of hand.  ?(r)Who am I', Raja replied with some annoyance, ?(r)that I can tell him  how to behave?' 
有一天，吉那拉贾达萨把拉贾拉到一边，温和地斥责他让奎师那如此失控。“(r)我是谁，”拉贾有些恼怒地回答，“(r)凭什么我能告诉他该怎么做?”

    Jinarajadasa then told Raja it was a pity he should go on with Krishna.  ?(r)If you would leave him and come back to Adyar, we would make you  the Vice-President here.' I heard these same words, in retrosopect, forty  years later when I first met Rukmini's brother, Yagna, at Adyar. 
吉纳拉贾达萨然后告诉拉贾，他应该和奎师那继续下去，这是一个遗憾。如果你愿意离开他，回到阿迪亚，我们就选你做这里的副总统。”四十年后，当我在阿迪尔第一次见到鲁克米尼的弟弟雅格纳时，回想起来，我听到了同样的话。

    ?(r)We Theosophists lost a valuable leader when your father went with  Krishnaji,?± he told me. ?(r)He should come back, even now, to Adyar.'  But it had already been too late in 1932. My father was too committed  aman. 
(r)当你父亲和克里希那吉一起去的时候，我们神智学者失去了一位有价值的领袖。他告诉我。即使现在，他也应该回到阿迪亚来。”但在1932年已经太晚了。我父亲是个太忠诚的人。

    When Leadbeater came from Australia to be with Mrs Besant at her  deathbed, and then fell ill himself, he heard that Krishna, on his last  visit, had referred to those at Adyar as exploiters, people who influenced  others for their own purposes. ?(r)Am I an exploiter?' the old man asked  Rukmini, who was taking care of him.! Leadbeater died the following  year with his question unanswered, at least by Krishna, who never saw  him again. 
当利德比特从澳大利亚来到贝桑特夫人临终前陪伴她，然后他自己也病倒了，他听说克里希纳在他最后一次来访时，把阿迪亚的人称为剥削者，那些为了自己的目的而影响他人的人。(r)我是剥削者吗?老人问照顾他的鲁克米尼。第二年，利德比特去世了，他的问题没有得到回答，至少克里希纳没有再见到他。

    In April 1933 Krishna and Raja took their final leave of Mrs Besant.  She died five months later and for the next fifty years Krishna would not  set foot in Adyar. With George Arundale as the next President, his ties with the Theosophical Society were completely severed. His 'memory  of a past so heavily dependent on Theosophy was, he claimed, wiped  clean. This claim was fundamental to his interpretation of the free mind  which had been evolving since his rejection of his role as the vehicle.  In order for the mind to be liberated, there can be no psychological  memory of all the sticky miseries that society imposes on those who  seek respectability. Total loss of memory also entitled him to a claim  of originality in all his teachings, yet they bear a marked similarity to  many of the Upanishads and the teachings of the Buddha, in both of  which he was thoroughly well versed in his youth at Adyar. Of course  there are those who will say that there is only one truth and the truth  always sounds the same. 
1933年4月，克里希纳和拉贾向贝赞特夫人告别。五个月后，她去世了，在接下来的五十年里，克里希纳再也没有踏足阿迪亚尔。随着乔治・阿伦代尔成为下一任总统，他与神智学会的关系完全断绝了。他声称，他对过去如此依赖神智学的记忆被抹去了。这一主张是他对自由思想的解释的基础，这种解释自他拒绝自己作为媒介的角色以来一直在发展。为了使思想得到解放，不可能有社会强加给那些追求体面的人的所有痛苦的心理记忆。完全失忆也使他有资格声称他的所有教导都是原创的，然而，这些教导与许多奥义书和佛陀的教导有明显的相似之处，这两者他在阿达尔的青年时代都非常精通。当然，有些人会说，只有一个真理，真理听起来总是一样的。

    In the summer of 1933, Rosalind took me with her to Ommen, where she  met Krishna and Raja, returning from India. As usual, Raja was totally  absorbed in his work and also suffered intermittently from painful bouts  of rheumatism. But there were many friends around who took a special  interest in me, and Rosalind had a plentiful supply of helping hands. 
1933年夏天，罗莎琳德带我去了阿曼，在那里她遇到了从印度回来的克里希纳和拉贾。像往常一样，拉贾完全沉浸在他的工作中，也间歇性地遭受痛苦的风湿病的折磨。但是周围有很多朋友对我特别感兴趣，罗莎琳德也有很多人伸出援助之手。

    Even at Ommen, Krishna would sometimes ask Rosalind to join  him in his cottage and, although she complied, it made her nervous.  Secrecy was much more in his interest than in hers, yet he seemed  undaunted by the possibility of discovery. His attitude was realistic.  One day Annie Vigeveno, a camp member, had been asked to go  to Krishna's cabin to clean it. She assumed he was out, and was  sweeping up the sitting-room when she heard Rosalind and Krishna  talking in the bedroom and remembers feeling a little surprised at  some of Krishna's uncomplimentary comments about people. She was  not otherwise disturbed by the situation, assuming Krishna must be  getting a massage from Rosalind; she did not allow any other possibility  to enter her mind. She admits she would have thought it all very strange  had they been anyone else.? 
即使在奥曼，克里希纳有时也会邀请罗莎琳德去他的小屋，虽然她答应了，但这让她很紧张。他对保密比对她更感兴趣，然而他似乎并不害怕可能被发现。他的态度很现实。有一天，营地成员安妮・维格韦诺(Annie Vigeveno)被要求去克里希纳的小屋打扫。她以为他出去了，正在打扫客厅时，听到罗莎琳德和克里希纳在卧室里谈话，她记得克里希纳对别人的一些不恭维的话让她感到有点惊讶。除此之外，她并没有被这种情况打扰，她认为奎师那一定是在接受罗莎琳德的按摩;她不允许任何其他可能性进入她的脑海。她承认，如果是其他人，她会觉得这一切都很奇怪。

    Rosalind did not feel guilty towards Raja for she felt he had given  her symbolic freedom. She evidently had not concerned herself about  Krishna's feelings of guilt, if he were capable of such. That summer  something moved Krishna to write a letter to Raja which he first gave  Rosalind to read. She found it beautiful and was touched by what it  said. In it Krishna explained that he loved Rosalind and her baby and  wanted to take full responsibility for them. And privately to her, he  said they would be married and go and live on some island. She is  certainly not the first woman in the world to have heard those words,  and it is an indication of her naivet¨| that she gave them any credence at all. When Krishna returned from this mission, he said that Raja had  hurt him by laughing in his face and brushing aside the whole idea.  Raja might well have asked how he proposed to take care of anyone  else when he could not even take care of himself. Krishna must have  made it clear to Rosalind that there would be no such alternative, as  living openly together without marriage, and Rosalind too felt that  their sexual relationship was their own business and not that of the  world at large. She saw Krishna as a man and a lover before she saw  him as a world teacher; she had always had trouble seeing him in that  role. It was perhaps the very fact that he was not remarkable to her  that made it possible for her to love him ⌒ and for him to love her,  in the way in which he did. 
罗莎琳德对拉贾并不感到内疚，因为她觉得他给了她象征性的自由。显然，她没有担心克里希纳的负罪感，如果他有这种能力的话。那年夏天，某种东西感动了克里希纳，他给拉贾写了一封信，先让罗莎琳德读。她觉得它很美，被里面的内容打动了。克里希纳在信中解释说，他爱罗莎琳德和她的孩子，并想为他们承担全部责任。他私下里对她说，他们要结婚，到某个岛上去生活。她当然不是世界上第一个听到这些话的女人，而且她根本不相信这些话，这表明她很天真。当奎师那完成任务回来时，他说拉贾当面嘲笑他，把整个想法都抛在脑后，伤害了他。拉贾很可能会问，他连自己都照顾不好，还打算怎么照顾别人。奎师那一定向罗莎琳德明确表示，不结婚就公开生活在一起是没有别的选择的，罗莎琳德也觉得他们的性关系是他们自己的事，与整个世界无关。在她把奎师那看作世界导师之前，她把他看作一个男人和一个情人;她一直不愿意看到他扮演那个角色。也许正是因为他对她来说并不出众，她才有可能爱他，而他也才有可能以他的方式爱她。

    Rosalind did not question at this time that Krishna really had given  Raja the letter. That Raja never spoke to her about it and behaved toward  her exactly as before, with no apparent reaction, might have made most  people wonder ⌒ yet it is characteristic of Rosalind to have overlooked  this and merely to have assumed that Raja was not upset by what he had  learned, and had quietly accepted it. When I questioned Raja fifty years  later he was certain there had been no letter (if there had been it would  undoubtedly have been found in his archives for he never threw away  the slightest scrap). Raja remembered only a vague remark by Krishna,  which he took as one of his quixotic ideas, never guessing the true  nature of his and Rosalind's relationship. Because Krishna had known  Rosalind first, and because Raja recognized that there was a special  feeling between them that existed before his marriage, he felt that it  was not his prerogative to question a relationship which he assumed  to be quite innocent. 
罗莎琳德此时并没有质疑克里希纳是否真的给了拉贾那封信。拉贾从来没有跟她说过这件事，对她的行为也和以前一样，没有明显的反应，这可能会让大多数人感到奇怪，但罗莎琳德忽视了这一点，只是认为拉贾并没有因为他学到的东西而心烦意乱，并且默默地接受了它，这是罗莎琳德的特点。五十年后，当我询问拉贾时，他确信没有这封信(如果有的话，毫无疑问会在他的档案中找到，因为他从不扔掉哪怕一点小碎片)。拉贾只记得克里希纳含糊的一句话，他认为这是他的一个不切实际的想法，从来没有猜测他和罗莎琳德关系的真正本质。因为克里希纳先认识罗莎琳德，因为拉贾认识到他们之间在结婚前就有一种特殊的感情，所以他觉得他无权质疑一段他认为很无辜的关系。

    When the talks at Ommen were over, Krishna was scheduled to go to  Norway. Raja, still very involved with business at Ommen, could not  accompany Krishna. So, quite naturally, Rosalind went instead, leaving  me in the care of my father and some very devoted ladies at Ommen,  Anneke Korndorfer and Annie Vigeveno. That was the first time my  mother had left me except with my grandmother. It was implicitly  understood by those around Raja and Rosalind that their lives were  dedicated to a high purpose which involved taking care of Krishna and  for this reason it is unlikely that anyone questioned these arrangements.  The love affair continued in Norway more ardently than ever. 
在阿曼的会谈结束后，克里希纳计划前往挪威。拉贾仍然忙于奥门的生意，不能陪伴奎师那。所以，很自然地，罗莎琳德去了，把我留给我父亲和奥曼的几位非常忠诚的女士照顾，安妮克・科恩多弗和安妮・维格韦诺。那是我母亲第一次离开我，除了我的祖母。拉贾和罗莎琳德周围的人都明白，他们的生活是为了一个崇高的目标而奉献的，其中包括照顾奎师那，因此，不太可能有人质疑这些安排。这种爱情在挪威比以往任何时候都更加热烈。

    On returning to California in late summer, Raja helped Erma and Sophia  to buy a house on Gower Street below the Hollywood foothills. He  established the Star Publishing Trust office on an adjacent property. 
 夏末回到加州后，拉贾帮助埃尔玛和索菲亚在好莱坞山麓下的高尔街买了一栋房子。他在邻近的一处房产上建立了明星出版信托公司。
                   
 
    This neighbourhood bordered the land of the former Theosophical  headquarters and was still heavily populated by Theosophists as well  as those devoted to Krishna. Raja spent more and more of his time  in Hollywood, content with the companionship of Sophia and Erma,  as well as numerous friends. If he was unconsciously aware of the  odd-man-out position that was his at Ojai, he would have found it  psychologically painful to bring the implications to the surface. Such  a recognition would have involved a departure from his commitment  not only to Mrs Besant but to himself and place him and his work  in an untenable position, both publicly and privately. He was well  aware of many contradictions in Krishna but had for some years been  convinced of Krishna's friendship toward him. To Raja friendship  assumed a reciprocity of loyalty and affection, too deep and too strong  to require affirmation, and, like Mrs Besant who was herself too truthful  to always perceive the untruth in another, Raja was blinded by his own  high ideals. 
这个社区与前神智学总部的土地接壤，仍然大量居住着神智学家和那些献身于奎师那的人。拉贾在好莱坞度过了越来越多的时间，满足于索菲亚和埃尔玛的陪伴，以及众多的朋友。如果他不自觉地意识到自己在欧康的地位，他就会发现，把这些暗示说出来，在心理上是很痛苦的。这样的承认不仅会使他背离对贝赞特夫人的承诺，也会使他和他的工作在公开和私下都站不住脚。他很清楚奎师那身上有许多矛盾，但多年来他一直深信奎师那对他是友好的。对拉贾来说，友谊是一种相互的忠诚和感情，太深太强，不需要肯定。而且，就像贝赞特太太一样，她自己太诚实，不会总是察觉到别人的不诚实，拉贾也被自己的崇高理想蒙蔽了双眼。

    Rosalind's letters to friends at this time give evidence of the closeness  of the three of them and of the structure of their lives, strange in  conventional terms but evidently not to any of them. I doubt if they  ever wondered what other people thought. But then they didn't have  to because within their own extensive circle they were above reproach  or criticism. To all appearances they were living a charmed life, full  of interesting people, travel and acceptance in any kind of society they  chose. But none of them had the usual attitude toward society. All  three of them were non-conformists and disdained the very idea of  being considered ?(r)respectable'. Indeed Krishna considered the desire  for respectability the prime root of unhappiness. 
罗莎琳德在这段时间写给朋友的信证明了他们三人的亲密关系以及他们的生活结构，这在传统意义上是奇怪的，但显然对他们任何人来说都不是。我怀疑他们是否想过别人是怎么想的。但后来他们不必这么做，因为在他们自己广泛的圈子里，他们是无可指责或批评的。从表面上看，他们过着一种迷人的生活，到处都是有趣的人，到处旅行，在他们选择的任何一种社会中都得到认可。但他们没有一个人对社会抱有通常的态度。他们三个都是不墨守成规的人，对被认为是“可敬的”这个想法不屑一顾。事实上，奎师那认为对体面的渴望是不快乐的主要根源。
