14 Childhood in the Sage Garden 在圣贤花园的童年

    My earliest complete memory is of lying in my crib at Arya Vihara and  smelling smoke. I sensed rather than saw the shape ofa figure through  the window but saw clearly an intermittent red glow like a fire ember. I  was in the front bedroom, my crib near the open screened window, for  it was a warm dark July night. The dining-room seemed a vast distance  away ⌒ beyond the living-room and the large entrance hall. I could hear  adult voices and above these I called for my mother, who came quickly  as she always did, for [ was not inclined to false alarms. But that night  she did not notice the smell of smoke (she had never had a keen sense of  smell) and thought I was imagining things when I described the glowing  light. I doubt anyone had ever had the effrontery to smoke in front of  Krinsh, so I had probably never encountered a cigarette or cigar. The  next night I called again and this time my mother believed me. The  others belicved neither of us. My mother told me many years later  that she had decided if no one believed us and she became convinced |  was in real danger she would have taken the car and run oft with  me. | suspect both my father and Krinsh would have considered her  hysterical had they known what was going on in her mind. But the  Lindbergh kidnapping only a few years before was still a tragic horror  story in many a young mother's mind and my mother was aware that  in Krinsh's large public there were a few who were not so balanced.  Only one friend, Major Dev Meyers, finally took the trouble to look  under the window, where he found cigar ashes. He watched for several  nights and eventually caught the man, a poor transient with a Peeping  Tom record. 
我最早的完整记忆是躺在Arya Vihara的婴儿床上闻着烟味。透过窗户，我不是看到一个人影的形状，而是感觉到一个断断续续的红光，就像一团火苗。我在前卧室，我的婴儿床靠近敞开的纱窗，因为那是一个温暖漆黑的七月夜晚。餐室似乎离客厅和大门厅很远。我能听到大人的声音，在这些声音之上，我呼唤我的母亲，她像往常一样很快就来了，因为她不会虚惊一场。但那天晚上，她没有注意到烟味(她的嗅觉从来都不灵敏)，当我描述那闪烁的光时，她以为我是在胡思乱想。我怀疑有没有人敢在克林什面前厚颜无耻地抽烟，所以我可能从来没有遇到过香烟或雪茄。第二天晚上我又打了电话，这次我妈妈相信了我。其他人都不相信我们。多年以后，我母亲告诉我，如果没有人相信我们，而且她确信我真的有危险，她就会开车带着我跑掉。我想，如果我父亲和克林什知道她在想什么，他们一定会认为她歇斯底里。但几年前的林德伯格绑架案在许多年轻母亲的心目中仍然是一个悲惨的恐怖故事，我母亲意识到，在克林什的广大公众中，有一些人并不那么平衡。只有一个朋友，德夫・迈耶斯少校，终于不费苦心地从窗户下面看了看，在那里他发现了雪茄灰。他监视了几个晚上，终于抓住了那个人，一个偷窥的可怜流浪汉汤姆记录。

    Aside from that one, my childhood memories are an unchronologically  woven tapestry of lovely places and loving people. The memories of these  people cluster like iron filings around places, without reference to time  and give no more weight to the living than to the dead. 
除了那件事，我的童年记忆是一幅不按时间顺序编织的挂毯，上面是可爱的地方和可爱的人。这些人的记忆像铁屑一样堆积在各处，与时间无关，对生者的重视不比对死者多。

    Foremost were the Logans, who drove across the country from  Pennsylvania twice a year in a big Packard with a silver owl sitting  proudly on the front. They came for two months in the spring and again in the autumn and our lives were closely intertwined. Rosalind  had first met Sara Logan in 1926 in India. Almost immediately they  had developed a very close friendship. 
最重要的是洛根一家，他们每年两次从宾夕法尼亚开着一辆大帕卡德横穿全国，车前面骄傲地坐着一只银色猫头鹰。他们在春天来了两个月，秋天又来了两个月，我们的生活紧密地交织在一起。罗莎琳德第一次见到萨拉・洛根是1926年在印度。他们几乎立刻建立起了非常亲密的友谊。

    Sara always wore flowing white dresses and shawls and had silky  white hair, and penetrating blue eyes softened by a gentle smile.  Robert, or Mr Robbie as we all called him, was more formidable,  at least to a small child. He dressed with exact appropriateness for the  occasion, with knickerbockers and visored cap for golf and hiking,  white ducks for badminton, and velvet trousers and jacket for dinners  at Arya Vihara. Robert and Sara bought the former guest house behind  Arya Vihara with its three or four acres of land and two small cottages.  They called the big house Saro Vihara and furnished it with Indian rugs,  pottery and baskets which they collected each year as they drove through  the reservations. 
萨拉总是穿着飘逸的白色连衣裙，披着披肩，长着柔滑的白发，一双锐利的蓝眼睛被温柔的微笑所软化。罗伯特，或者我们都叫他罗比先生，更令人生畏，至少对一个小孩子来说是这样。他穿着十分得体，打高尔夫球和徒步旅行时穿着灯笼裤，戴着有檐帽，打羽毛球时戴着白鸭子，在Arya Vihara餐厅吃饭时穿着天鹅绒裤子和夹克。罗伯特和萨拉买下了艾莉亚・维哈拉后面的前招待所，那里有三四英亩的土地和两间小别墅。他们把这所大房子叫做萨罗・维哈拉，用印第安地毯、陶器和篮子来装饰，这些都是他们每年开车经过保留地时收集的。

    Robert Logan was a direct descendant of James Logan, the Quaker  secretary of Willlam Penn. Ironically James Logan made his fortune  in furs while Robert's father, Sydney Algernon Logan was one of the  founders of the Anti-Vivisection Society, to which he left his fortune.  Robert went even further than his father as an animal benefactor. He  was also a vegetarian and he and Sara campaigned against the use of  leather products or furs. They had found many kindred spirits in the  Theosophical Society, but Robert's ardent pacifism was an ideal passed  down through the Logan Quaker heritage. 
罗伯特・洛根是威廉・佩恩的贵格会秘书詹姆斯・洛根的直系后裔。具有讽刺意味的是，詹姆斯・洛根靠卖皮草发家，而罗伯特的父亲西德尼・阿尔杰农・洛根是反活体解剖协会的创始人之一，他把自己的财产留给了该协会。罗伯特甚至比他父亲更热心于动物慈善事业。他也是一个素食主义者，他和萨拉反对使用皮革制品或皮草。他们在神智学会找到了许多志同道合的人，但罗伯特热情的和平主义是洛根贵格会传承下来的理想。

    While Robert in his later years would say that Sara had the type  of beauty that becomes deeper with age, he often liked to describe a  moment in his youth at a d¨|butante ball in Philadelphia where two of  the most beautiful women he was ever to see were standing as young  d¨|butantes at the top of the staircase, Carolyn Hastings, a stunning  brunette, and Sara Wetherill, an equally stunning blonde. They could  not have imagined at that moment that they would one day share an  interest in Krishnamurti. 
虽然罗伯特晚年会说萨拉的美随着年龄的增长而加深，但他经常喜欢描述他年轻时在费城举行的一次舞会上的一个时刻，在那里，他见过的两个最漂亮的女人站在楼梯顶上，卡洛琳・黑斯廷斯是一个迷人的黑发女郎，萨拉・韦瑟瑞尔是一个同样迷人的金发女郎。在那一刻，他们无法想象有一天他们会共同对克里希那穆提感兴趣。

    Robert was born into circumstances which enabled him never to have  to work, but with his Quaker background he was expected to attain a  profession and at least for a while to prove he could live by it. He and  Sara had once lived in a walk-up, cold-water flat while he practised  law in New York and ate forty cent lunches at Delmonico's. He had  joined the Players' Club and in later years told stories of his encounters  there with the elderly Mark Twain. Eventually they moved to the  nearly two-hundred-acre estate near Philadelphia, which they called  Sarobia and which Sara's father had given them for a wedding present.  Robert gave up the law and became a gentleman farmer and scholar. 
罗伯特出生的环境使他永远不必工作，但由于他的贵格会教徒背景，他被期望获得一份职业，至少在一段时间内证明他可以靠它生活。他和萨拉曾经住在一套无电梯的冷水公寓里，而他在纽约当律师，在德尔莫尼科餐厅吃40美分的午餐。他加入了球员俱乐部，并在后来的几年里讲述了他在那里遇到年迈的马克・吐温的故事。最后，他们搬到了费城附近近200英亩的庄园，他们称之为萨罗比亚，那是萨拉的父亲送给他们的结婚礼物。罗伯特放弃了法律，成为一个有教养的农民和学者。

    He also wrote fine poetry, translated the Divine Comedy into beautiful  English, sculpted, and managed his stock portfolios. Eventually both  Sara and Robert turned away from society to pursue a humanitarian and  spiritual path. They also helped to promote artists and actors and, before  their involvement with Krishna, supported a summer stock theatre at  Sarobia. They housed innumerable people in need under their roof,  some elderly and displaced who stayed permanently. 
他还写了优美的诗歌，把《神曲》翻译成优美的英语，雕刻，管理他的股票投资组合。最终，萨拉和罗伯特都离开了社会，追求人道主义和精神道路。他们还帮助推广艺术家和演员，在参与克里希纳之前，他们支持萨罗比亚的夏季股票剧院。他们把无数需要帮助的人安置在自己的屋檐下，一些老人和流离失所的人永久地留在了这里。

    Behind the lawns at Arya Vihara was a bricked patio, with a trumpet  vine trellis, tiered rock work, and a rectangular lily pond, all of which  had been given by Sara, who loved to design gardens. She also made  a croquet lawn below the terrace and, although she did not play, she  had a concrete badminton court built on the edge of the orchard. 
在艾莉亚维哈拉的草坪后面，有一个砖砌的天井，上面有喇角藤架、层叠的岩石和一个长方形的百合池塘，所有这些都是萨拉送的，她喜欢设计花园。她还在露台下面建了一块槌球草坪，虽然她不打，但她在果园边上建了一个混凝土羽毛球场。

    One Easter my mother brought me a small duckling. That it was  missing an oil duct almost led to fatal mishap for both the duck and  me, for it was unable to waterproofits feathers. Every time it went in  the pool it sank. With my three-year-old logic I thought it simply didn't  know how to swim. I persistently tried to keep it afloat. As I couldn't  swim either, it was a good thing that there was always someone around.  The duck and I would both plunge headlong towards the bottom of the  pool. One day Mr Robbie thought he was seeing me trying to drown  the duck for he did not understand about its oil duct problem -indeed  at that moment none of us did. 
一个复活节，妈妈给我带来了一只小鸭子。它缺少一个输油管道，这几乎给鸭子和我带来了致命的灾难，因为它不能给羽毛防水。每次它进到池子里就沉下去。按照我三岁时的逻辑，我认为它根本不知道如何游泳。我坚持不懈地想让它维持下去。因为我也不会游泳，所以总有人在身边是件好事。鸭子和我都会一头扎向池底。有一天，罗比先生以为他看到的是我试图淹死那只鸭子，因为他不明白那只鸭子的输油管道有问题――事实上，当时我们谁也不明白。

    ?(r)I clearly saw her trying to drown the poor thing.' 
    ?(r)Oh no! Radha would never do that. She was trying to save it.'  My mother replied braving his anger in my defence. But no amount  of explaining by my mother as to my motives, which she at least  understood, could assuage his anger at me. Mr Robbie would never  tolerate any kind of cruelty or even thoughtlessness to animals and  in his view children were often the worst offenders and not really  worth knowing until they were taught to be civilized. Perhaps under  the influenice of Sara, he tolerated me better than most and we would  one day love each other very much, but for three days he wouldn't  talk to me or to my mother because of her defence of me. By the  greatest of luck, only a few days later, he read in a magazine about a  missing oil duct in another duck and most graciously apologized. When  it came to squeezing frogs or srogs as I called them, even Mr Robbie  had to recognize that [ was only guilty of an overwhelming love for  these creatures and with great patience he eventually convinced me that  I should show a little less passion toward them. I loved Sara, who unlike  Mr Robbie was never strict and spent a great deal of time entertaining a  small child. Her own daughter, Deborah, who was about my mother's age, was tragically separated from Sara and Robert in those years But  that was a story I would learn about later. 
我清楚地看到她想把这可怜的东西淹死。”
? (r)噢,不!罗达绝不会那样做。她是想救它。”我母亲顶着怒气回答说，为我辩护。我母亲对我的动机作了再多的解释(她至少是理解的)，也不能平息他对我的愤怒。罗比先生绝不会容忍对动物的任何残忍甚至轻率，在他看来，孩子往往是最坏的罪犯，在教会他们文明之前，他们不值得了解。也许是受萨拉的影响，他比大多数人都更能容忍我，有一天我们会非常相爱，但有三天他不愿和我或我母亲说话，因为她为我辩护。幸运的是，仅仅几天后，他在一本杂志上读到另一只鸭子的油管不见了，于是非常客气地道歉了。当我要挤青蛙或我所说的小青蛙时，就连罗比先生也不得不承认，我只是对这些生物有一种压倒性的爱，他最终耐心地说服了我，我应该对它们表现出少一点激情。我爱萨拉，她不像罗比先生那样严厉，而且花很多时间陪小孩子玩耍。她自己的女儿，黛博拉，和我母亲差不多大，在那些年里不幸与萨拉和罗伯特分开了。

    There were many people around us who had suffered tragedy and  had found comfort and renewal in Krinsh's words. Some understood  that a path starting with doubt and leading to enquiry and search was in  itself the goal; that there was no answer beyond the direct and immediate  individual experience towards which Krinsh in his talks tried to clear  the way. The Logans were among those who had bridged the ravine  between Krinsh and Theosophy, as had my aunt Erma. They seemed  to find no contradiction in the Theosophical precepts of universal  brotherhood, alleviating suffering and Krinsh's view that freedom lay  in an unconditioned mind free of past thoughts, memories and beliefs.  Whether or not they believed in the Masters and the occult areas of  Theosophy they would have found irrelevant to discuss. 
我们周围有很多人经历了悲剧，从克林什的话语中找到了安慰和新生。有些人明白，从怀疑开始，通向探究和探索的道路本身就是目标;除了克林什在他的谈话中试图扫清道路的直接和直接的个人经验之外，没有别的答案。洛根夫妇是那些在克林什语和神智学之间架起桥梁的人之一，就像我的姨妈艾尔玛一样。他们似乎在通神学的普遍兄弟情谊、减轻痛苦的戒律和克林什的观点中没有发现矛盾，后者认为自由在于不受过去思想、记忆和信仰限制的心灵。无论他们是否相信大师和神智学的神秘领域，他们都会发现与讨论无关。

    Much as I loved being with my grandmother in Hollywood and  missed her in my long absences from her, life at Ojai was better. My  cousin David, Grace and Willie's son, lived there. He was just a year  younger than me and we were as close as brother and sister. He spent  most of the time at our house when we were in OQjai. [ have often  wondered what life was like for David when we weren't there, for his  world became so centred around ours. His father Willie managed the  ranch and David and I used to follow him about and ride with him on  the tractor. We were probably a colossal nuisance, but he never made  us feel that. Willie was immensely strong and could easily carry both  of us, each tucked under an arm. No matter how tired he was or how  long his day, his laughter always came easily, bubbling up through his  sturdy chest like clear spring water. 
尽管我很喜欢在好莱坞和祖母在一起，也很想念她，但在欧康的生活要好得多。我的堂兄大卫，格蕾丝和威利的儿子，住在那里。他只比我小一岁，我们就像兄妹一样亲密。我们在奥凯的时候，他大部分时间都在我们家。我常常想知道，当我们不在大卫身边时，他的生活是什么样的，因为他的世界变得如此以我们的世界为中心。他的父亲威利管理着农场，大卫和我常常跟着他，和他一起开拖拉机。我们可能是个大麻烦，但他从不让我们有这种感觉。威利非常强壮，可以轻松地把我们两个夹在胳膊下。不管他有多累，不管一天有多长，他的笑声总是很轻松，像清澈的泉水一样从他结实的胸膛里冒出来。

    Willie Weidemann was the son of Frederick Weidemann, a famous  opera singer in Vienna in the early part of this century. As a young  man Willie often sang in the chorus of the Vienna opera. One of his  brothers followed in the father's footsteps to become an opera singer  himself. But not Willie. He turned against the high living of pre-First  World War Vienna, vowing to himself, and he never broke this vow,  that he would not touch alcohol. He went to Agricultural College in  Denmark, got his degree in grass and grain agronomy and then took  off for America, where he found a job training horses in South Dakota.  Eventually he made his way to Ojai, where he worked with Marvel,  Rosalind's and Grace's older sister, on her chicken ranch. There he first  saw Grace when he helped her from the rumble seat of a car. It was  love at first sight. In time Raja asked him to take charge of the orange  grove at Arya Vihara and the Weidemann family moved there into one of the houses on Mr Robbie's land next door. Raja needed Willie's help  in the office as well, and Willie, with his ability to learn anything to  perfection, became not only business manager but Raja's trusted friend  and confidant. 
威利・魏德曼是本世纪初维也纳著名歌剧演唱家弗雷德里克・魏德曼的儿子。威利年轻时经常在维也纳歌剧院的合唱队里唱歌。他的一个兄弟追随父亲的脚步，自己也成为了一名歌剧演员。但威利不是。他开始反对一战前维也纳的奢华生活，他对自己发誓，他从来没有违背过这个誓言，他不会碰酒。他去了丹麦的农业学院，获得了草和谷物农学学位，然后去了美国，在南达科他州找到了一份驯马的工作。最终，他来到了欧康，在那里，他和罗莎琳德和格蕾丝的姐姐Marvel一起在她的养鸡场工作。在那里，他第一次见到格蕾丝是在他把她从汽车的座位上扶起来的时候。那是一见钟情。后来，拉贾让他负责照管艾莉亚维哈拉的橘子园，魏德曼一家搬到了罗比先生隔壁的一所房子里。拉贾在办公室里也需要威利的帮助，而威利凭借自己的学习能力，不仅成为了业务经理，而且成为了拉贾值得信赖的朋友和知己。

    Although he was at the core of all of our lives, Willie never had any  interest in the philosophical side of life around Krinsh. He helped in all  the financial and practical matters, the mailing lists, the books, even  sitting behind the table to sell the publications at the talks. He told  me once many years later, after he had retired, that the reason he had  no interest in what Krinsh had to say was because he had witnessed  early on the great discrepancy between what Krinsh said and what he  did. Willie never commented on this to anyone as he did not consider  it his business but quietly made up his mind that he would find his  own path, as he always had ⌒ and indeed as Krinsh himself publicly  recommended. 
虽然他是我们所有人生活的核心，但威利对克林什周围生活的哲学方面从来没有任何兴趣。他帮忙处理所有的财务和实际事务，邮件列表，书籍，甚至在会谈中坐在桌子后面销售出版物。多年后，他退休后告诉我，他之所以对克林什要说的话不感兴趣，是因为他很早就目睹了克林什言行之间的巨大差异。威利从来没有对任何人说过这件事，因为他不认为这是他的事，但他默默地下定决心，要找到自己的路，就像他一直做的那样，也确实像克林什自己公开推荐的那样。

    In those early years neither was I in the least interested in what Krinsh  said publicly. It was a wonder to me how several thousand people could  sit spellbound by his words. His private behaviour was more intriguing.  I also sensed with gratitude that his actions often drew on himself the  attention and the irritation of my parents which might otherwise have  fallen on me. Krinsh's habit of eating only half of everything annoyed  my mother. There were halves of bananas, apples, pieces of biscuits or  toast always left for her to dispose of. Nothing was ever thrown out  or wasted so someone had to be found to eat the other half. 
在最初的几年里，我对克林什在公开场合说的话一点也不感兴趣。几千人坐在那里被他的话迷住了，这对我来说是一个奇迹。他的私人行为更耐人寻味。我也怀着感激之情感觉到，他的行为常常引起我父母的注意和生气，否则这些事就会落在我身上。克林什吃什么东西都只吃一半的习惯惹恼了我母亲。总是有一半的香蕉、苹果、饼干或烤面包留给她处理。没有东西被扔掉或浪费，所以必须找个人吃掉另一半。

    My mother too had her own way of being irritating. I think she was  by nature a gambler for she loved to take chances. She was lucky almost  always in the outcome and won at games of luck. Once on an ocean  voyage, Sara had staked her in a bridge game and Rosalind had returned  the stake tenfold. This luck was particularly irritating to my father, who  seemed to have very little luck of his own. He was painfully meticulous  about everything, a trait in itself annoying to some of us, yet he was  constantly plagued by the serious consequences of others' errors while  my mother sailed through such misfortunes without even noticing. Her  luck would show up often in her driving. She certainly would have  deserved some of the tickets she never got although she was always  an excellent driver and never had an accident. She would not allow  enough time for anything but still managed to get it all done and arrive  almost on time (she considered a consistent ten minutes late on time  for her). Krinsh was always consulting his Patek Philippe gold pocket  watch, given him by Mr Robbie, to emphasize her lack of punctuality.  Krinsh was never late for anything (unless it was due to my mother). 
我母亲也有她自己让人生气的方式。我想她天生是个赌徒，因为她喜欢冒险。她几乎总是很幸运，在运气游戏中获胜。有一次在海上航行，萨拉和罗莎琳德赌桥牌，罗莎琳德把赌注翻了十倍。这种运气让父亲特别恼火，他自己似乎也没什么运气。他对每件事都一丝不苟，这一点本身就让我们有些人感到恼火。然而，他总是被别人的错误所带来的严重后果所困扰，而我母亲却安然度过了这样的不幸，甚至没有注意到。她的运气常常表现在开车上。她当然应该得到一些她从未得到的罚单，尽管她一直是一个优秀的司机，从未发生过事故。她不会给任何事情留出足够的时间，但仍然设法完成所有工作，并且几乎准时到达(她认为对她来说，准时迟到10分钟是一贯的)。克林什总是拿着罗比先生送给他的百达翡丽(Patek Philippe)黄金怀表，强调自己不守时。克林什做任何事从不迟到(除非是我母亲的事)。
 
                   
 
    Dish washing was often a cause of considerable contention between her  and Krinsh. First she stacked and balanced the dishes in the sink in such  a way that they should have inevitably toppled over ⌒ but never did,  a habit we attributed to her gambling spirit. She then rushed through  the washing in a slap-dash fashion while Krinsh and I dried. He would  search for particles of food and hand back the plate. Irritation increased  on both sides and the whole routine became underlined by excited,  half-joking half-angry chatter. My father had long since departed for  his office. He felt no obligation whatsoever to join in this particular  chore and looked on such skirmishes as intolerably petty. 
洗碗经常是她和克林什争吵的原因。首先，她把水槽里的盘子堆叠起来，使它们保持平衡，这样它们就会不可避免地翻倒，但从来没有，我们把这个习惯归因于她的赌博精神。然后她匆匆忙忙地洗完衣服，而我和克林什则把衣服擦干。他会寻找食物的颗粒，然后把盘子递回去。双方都越来越恼火，兴奋的、半开玩笑半生气的闲聊使整个过程变得更加突出。我父亲早去上班了。他觉得自己没有义务参加这种特殊的家务，他认为这种小冲突微不足道，令人无法容忍。

    His causes for irritation with Krinsh seemed, even to me, more  serious. Krinsh loved to promise things to people. He could never say  no to a request. Sometimes he would even offer to loan money. Of  course he had no cash and no bank account either. I doubt if he ever  wrote a cheque in his life. Krinsh had no concept of money. A thousand  dollars meant no more than twenty. My father would then either have to  write the cheque or explain to the supplicant that there were no funds for  loans. Even I realized that money was scarce throughout my childhood.  My mother ran the household on a strict budget, made all my clothes  and Krinsh's and my father's shirts and pyjamas. I learned very young  that it-was best never to ask for anything, but neither did I feel the  need to do so. Life at Arya Vihara was fun. We didn't need toys or  expensive diversions. 
甚至在我看来，他对克林什的恼怒似乎更为严重。克林什喜欢向别人承诺。他从不拒绝别人的要求。有时他甚至会提出借钱。当然，他没有现金，也没有银行账户。我怀疑他一生中是否写过一张支票。克林什没有钱的概念。一千美元意味着不超过二十美元。然后，我父亲要么写支票，要么向申请人解释没有贷款资金。甚至在我的童年，我都意识到钱是稀缺的。我的母亲严格控制家庭预算，做我所有的衣服，克林什和我父亲的衬衫和睡衣。我很小的时候就知道，最好不要要求任何东西，但我也不觉得有必要这样做。艾莉亚维哈拉的生活很有趣。我们不需要玩具或昂贵的娱乐。

    Mary Gray's School of the Open Gate was still next door to Arya  Vihara, although Erma no longer had anything to do with it. David  and I both went there, but my attendance must have been somewhat  irregular with all the travelling we did in those days. It was Krinsh  who usually got me ready for school and taught me how to tie my  shoelaces in the English schoolboy manner, with one end looped under  so they never came undone. We also polished our shoes together every  afternoon before dinner. In spite of all this emphasis on shoes, I never  really liked them and as soon as [ had a choice wore sandals or went  barefoot. Krinsh himself usually wore his Indian sandals or sneakers  around Arya Vihara. When [ was very small he called me Tum-Tums.  Happily he modified this to Kittums by the time it mattered and it  remained that ever after. He made an earnest effort to share with me his  interest in learning languages and we would have a regular half-hour  of French Linguaphone records every morning before school. He was  not a good language teacher for he failed to give me any indication  of whether my pronunciation was improving. He would only say, ?(r)No,  no, not like that,?± and the lesson would end with a tolerant smile that was far from encouraging. The same method was applied to my yoga  lessons and I have found both these disciplines particularly difficult ever  since. But of all my adults Krinsh was definitely the most fun. He was  never cross or strict, always loving and usually willing to play. 
玛丽・格雷的“敞开的门”学校仍然在艾莉亚・维哈拉的隔壁，虽然艾尔玛已经不再和它有任何关系了。大卫和我都去了那里，但我的出席一定有些不规律，因为我们在那些日子里做了很多旅行。通常是克林什帮我准备上学，教我如何用英国小学生的方式系鞋带，把鞋带的一端绕在下面，这样鞋带就不会松开。每天下午晚饭前，我们还一起擦鞋。尽管所有这些都强调鞋子，但我从来没有真正喜欢过它们，只要我有选择就穿凉鞋或赤脚。Krinsh本人通常穿着他的印度凉鞋或运动鞋去Arya Vihara。当我还很小的时候，他叫我嘟嘟。幸运的是，他在关键时刻将其修改为Kittums，并一直沿用至今。他非常努力地和我分享他对学习语言的兴趣，每天早上上学前，我们都会定期听半小时的法语录音。他不是一个好的语言老师，因为他没有给我任何迹象表明我的发音是否在提高。他只会说:“不，不，不是那样的。”这堂课会以一个宽容的微笑结束，但这远非鼓励。同样的方法被应用到我的瑜伽课上，从那以后我发现这两门学科都特别难。但在我所有的成年人中，克林什绝对是最有趣的。他从不生气或严厉，总是充满爱心，通常愿意玩。

    Arya Vihara was its own island; we never heard what the rest of  QOjai thought of it. But there must have been those who wondered  who we were and what we were up to. We were not even part of  the Theosophical community, which Krinsh firmly eschewed in those  days. But nothing about our life seemed peculiar to me, even later  when some of my school friends hinted that it was. Of course, in  the early days most of my companions were the children of Krinsh's  followers so I had no problems. He always joined David and me and  our friends on the lawn for hide and seek. I was very proud to say that  as well as a Mummy and Daddy I had a Krinsh, which was something  no one else seemed to have. 
艾莉亚维哈拉是一座独立的岛屿;我们从来没听说过魁海的其他人是怎么想的。但肯定有人想知道我们是谁，我们在做什么。我们甚至不是神智学团体的一员，在那些日子里，克林什坚决回避神智学团体。但我们的生活对我来说并没有什么特别之处，即使后来我的一些学校朋友暗示我们有什么特别之处。当然，在最初的日子里，我的大多数同伴都是克林什信徒的孩子，所以我没有任何问题。他总是和大卫、我以及我们的朋友一起在草坪上捉迷藏。我很自豪地说，除了妈妈和爸爸，我还有一个krish，这是其他人似乎没有的东西。

    Wild animals played a frequent part in our life. One day Krinsh  brought home three baby opossums whose mother had been killed by  a car. We fed them with a medicine dropper and they hung by their  tails from the wire cage top, in time growing large enough to send  on their own way in the world. I realized that wild animals were only  visitors and not permanent members of our household, but I became  keenly attached to them nevertheless. We once found a baby skunk in  the garden and it became a pet for many weeks; more affectionate than  our cat, 1t snuggled against my neck and I loved it, odour and all. One  morning it was gone from its little house set on an earth bed in the patio.  The skunk odour was strong around the house all night. We could see  the traces of its tiny feet digging from the inside and the large marks of  its mother's feet digging from the outside to reclaim her lost baby. 
野生动物经常出现在我们的生活中。一天，克林什带回了三只小负鼠，它们的妈妈被一辆车撞死了。我们用一个药滴器喂它们，它们的尾巴被吊在铁丝笼的顶部，随着时间的推移，它们长得足够大，可以在这个世界上走自己的路了。我意识到野生动物只是过客，而不是我们家的永久成员，但我还是深深地依恋着它们。有一次，我们在花园里发现了一只小臭鼬，它当了好几个星期的宠物;它比我们家的猫更深情，依偎在我的脖子上，我喜欢它，气味和一切。一天早晨，它从它在院子里的土床上的小房子里走了。整晚房子周围都有强烈的臭鼬气味。我们可以看到它的小脚从里面挖的痕迹，以及它妈妈从外面挖的大脚印，以找回她丢失的孩子。

    My father loved animals but he was also very fastidious and did not  enjoy my little ducklings running over his bed or a puppy wetting his  office rug. Only then did I encounter the irritation that he sometimes  turned on Krinsh, yet I was never intimidated by him, for there was a  reasonableness in his anger and it always subsided as soon as the cause  for it was removed. 
我父亲喜欢动物，但他也很挑剔，不喜欢我的小鸭子在他床上跑，也不喜欢我的小狗弄湿他办公室的地毯。直到那时，我才体会到他有时对克林什的愤怒，但我从来没有被他吓倒，因为他的愤怒中有一种合理的道理，只要消除了引起愤怒的原因，这种愤怒就会消退。

    There were constant visitors. One who had a very special place in  our lives for over fifty years was Blanche Matthias. She was a fine  poet, an art critic, and had a great talent for bringing together good  combinations of people. She extended her warmth and generosity to  three generations of our family. Blanche had been introduced to Krinsh  before I was born by Mima Porter, the eldest de Manziarly sister, who  was now the widow of an American. She was the only one of the de Manziarlys to marry. Blanche wrote her recollections about this first  meeting with Krinsh: 
经常有访客。布兰奇・马蒂亚斯(Blanche Matthias)在我们的生活中占据了50多年的特殊地位。她是一个优秀的诗人，一个艺术评论家，并且有一个伟大的天赋，把人很好的组合在一起。她把她的热情和慷慨传递给了我们家的三代人。布兰奇是在我出生前由曼齐亚利家的姐姐米玛・波特介绍给克林什认识的，她现在是一个美国人的寡妇。她是德・曼齐亚里家族中唯一结婚的人。布兰奇写下了她与克林什第一次见面的回忆:

    My friend led me through a large citrus grove, past a good-sized  house, to a small one-room ?(r)shack'. I was asked to remove my shoes,  and leaving them outside I went alone into the shaded room. Waiting  there, sitting quietly on the floor, was the most beautiful being I had  ever seen. He was as shy as I was and I do not remember one word  of our conversation or if we spoke at all. 
    I left him with the certainty that there was something in life I had  not suspected. Something other than writing and music and art - something other than Christianity and white skins.! 
我的朋友领着我穿过一片大柑橘林，经过一所很大的房子，来到一间只有一个房间的小屋。我被要求脱下鞋子，把它们放在外面，我独自走进阴凉的房间。静静地坐在地板上的是我所见过的最美丽的生物。他和我一样害羞，我不记得我们谈话的一个字，也不记得我们是否说过话。
离开他的时候，我确信生活中一定有我不曾怀疑过的东西。除了写作、音乐和艺术之外的东西――除了基督教和白皮肤之外的东西。

    It was Blanche who initiated a series of summers in Carmel. There she introduced us (really Krinsh) to her friends; the poet Robinson Jeffers, the writer Erskine Scott Wood and, the photographer Edward  Weston among others. Blanche also arranged and provided for our  accommodation.  On 17 July 1934 Rosalind wrote: 
是布兰奇开始了在卡梅尔的一系列夏天。在那里，她把我们(实际上是克林什)介绍给她的朋友;诗人罗宾逊・杰弗斯、作家厄斯金・斯科特・伍德和摄影师爱德华・韦斯顿等人。布兰奇还安排并提供了我们的住宿。1934年7月17日，罗莎琳德写道:

    Darling Blanche, 
    Yesterday we all decided considering many things that if it would  really suit your convenience we would rather come to Carmel in  September . . . Krishnaji thinks Raja should have a month free from  work first so that his mind will be fresh for the book they are going  to do in Carmel. 
    .. . As to rooms: you are all much too kind in your arrangements  but we do not really need so many rooms. If Krishnaji has his bedroom  and one other room where they can work we thought it would be  better if we were all together in the hotel ⌒ otherwise I could never  be with them and help them if the baby were alone, asleep, etc. So  ifI could have a room for baby and me, Raja a room, it would be  perfect. Please do not do this if it means turning anyone out of the  hotel . . . 
    Much love from us both,  ROSALIND 
亲爱的布兰奇,
昨天我们考虑了很多事情，决定如果你们真的方便的话，我们宁愿在9月份去卡梅尔……克里希那吉认为拉贾应该先有一个月的时间不工作，这样他的头脑才会清醒，他们要在卡梅尔写书。
. .。至于房间，你们安排得太周到了，但是我们并不真的需要那么多房间。如果克里希那吉有他的卧室和另一个房间，他们可以在那里工作，我们认为如果我们都在酒店会更好，否则我永远无法和他们在一起，帮助他们，如果孩子是独自一人，睡着了，等等。如果我和拉贾能有一间房，那就再好不过了。请不要这样做，如果这意味着把任何人赶出酒店…
我们俩都爱你，罗莎琳

    The hotel referred to was Peter Pan Lodge in the Carmel Highlands  which, unhappily for the many who loved it, burned down about thirty  years ago. We were to spend many summers there. 
    Rosalind could not have known when she wrote this letter that her  and Krishna's rooms would be adjacent, each with its own little balcony and that Krishna would take the tremendous risk of jumping Errol Flynn style between the two to come into her room at night. 
这里所说的旅馆是位于卡梅尔高地的彼得・潘旅馆，不幸的是，对于许多热爱它的人来说，它在大约30年前被烧毁了。我们打算在那里度过许多个夏天。
罗莎琳德在写这封信的时候不可能知道，她和克里希纳的房间是相邻的，每个房间都有自己的小阳台，克里希纳会冒着巨大的风险，像埃罗尔・弗林(Errol Flynn)那样，在两人之间跳来跳去，在晚上进入她的房间。

    In view of this, his apparent concern for Raja being rested and in good  frame of mind to help with the book shows how comfortably Krishna  situated himself in the middle of that marriage. He also displayed a  father's protective instinct toward Raja's baby. One night carrying me  down the stairs at the Lodge, Krinsh slipped and fell and everyone  present noticed, and commented for years after, how he protected me  at any cost to himself. 
有鉴于此，奎师那显然关心拉贾的休息和良好的心态，以帮助完成这本书，这表明奎师那在这段婚姻中是多么舒适。他也表现出了一个父亲对拉贾的孩子的保护本能。一天晚上，克林什抱着我走下旅馆的楼梯，不小心滑倒了，在场的每个人都注意到了，并在多年后评论他是如何不惜一切代价保护我的。

    Vivid memories of Carmel still linger; Peter Pan Lodge and Wendy  who ran it ⌒ Tinkerbell the cat, the seagull with a broken wing that we  tried to repair. Every night there was clear potassium broth for dinner  with a bit of parsley floating in it and iced celery and carrot sticks. I  don't remember what came after, but undoubtedly they went to great  pains to provide good vegetarian fare. 
卡梅尔的生动记忆仍然挥之不去;彼得・潘・洛奇和经营它的温迪，小叮当猫，我们试图修复的断了翅膀的海鸥。每天晚上的晚餐都是透明的钾肉汤，里面漂浮着一点欧芹，还有冰芹菜和胡萝卜条。我不记得之后发生了什么，但毫无疑问，他们煞费苦心地提供美味的素食。

    It was very much Krinsh's and my mother's time together. I can see  him sitting on the edge of her bed and massaging cold cream on to her  face. She always dressed well and carefully and took care of her face and  hair, but had she not done so he would certainly have seen to it that she  did. He must have been very strong for he carried me everywhere when  I got tired of scrambling after them over the rocky points and tide pools  of Point Lobos and the pine-sheltered trails on the hill behind Peter Pan.  Where my father was on these occasions I do not know. He is not part  of my memories in Carmel. Those summers that he came there with  us, he must have spent mostly in his room working on manuscripts.  It would have been uncharacteristic of him to accompany Krinsh, my  mother and me on our walks. Evenings, too, he would have been  working alone in his room after they all retired and early mornings he  would, as was his custom, sleep late having been up working half the  night. It is Krinsh that I remember vividly, laughing often, particularly  when he was with my mother. Our world then seemed flooded with  joy and gentleness ⌒ and love. 
那是克林什和我母亲在一起的时光。我能看见他坐在她的床边，在她脸上按摩冷霜。她总是穿得很讲究，很细心，也很爱惜自己的脸和头发，但如果她不这样做的话，他肯定会注意到她的。他一定很强壮，因为当我厌倦了跟着他们爬过洛博斯角的岩石点和潮池，以及彼得・潘身后山上松树掩蔽的小径时，他带着我到处走。在这些场合，我不知道我父亲在哪里。我在卡梅尔的记忆里没有他。他和我们一起来的那些夏天，他大部分时间肯定是在他的房间里写手稿。他陪着克林什、我母亲和我一起散步，这是不寻常的。晚上也是一样，在他们都退下后，他会独自在自己的房间里工作。一大早，他会像往常一样，工作了大半夜，睡到很晚。我记得很清楚的是克林什，他经常笑，特别是当他和我母亲在一起的时候。那时，我们的世界似乎充满了欢乐、温柔和爱。

