15  Beyond the Garden 花园之外

    Although Raja had some devoted workers in the Hollywood office he  ran a one-man show and made himself responsible for every detail of  its multiple facets. Managing the various trust funds, keeping accounts,  figuring taxes, procuring visas, arranging Krishna's itineraries and talks  in half a dozen or more countries, were all tasks that Raja refused  to entrust to anyone else. But above all these in importance was  the meticulous editing of Krishna's manuscripts and verbatim talks.  Therefore, I saw very little of my father. His hours were not adapted to a  child's. He usually got dressed at mid-morning, often skipped lunch, put  in a brief appearance for dinner, and worked until four in the morning.  He seldom came to Ojai at all, preferring to stay in Hollywood with  my grandmother and Erma. Erma admired him tremendously and used  to wonder why my mother seemed to enjoy the company of so many  other people when she was married to a fascinating man like my father.  Of course she never had an inkling about Krinsh. To have known that  might have broken her heart, or then again she might have encompassed  such knowledge within her broad philosophical outlook. 
尽管拉贾在好莱坞的办公室里有一些忠诚的员工，但他经营着一个人的演出，并让自己对演出的各个方面的每一个细节负责。管理各种信托基金、记账、计算税款、办理签证、安排克里希纳的行程以及在六个或更多国家的会谈，这些都是拉贾拒绝委托给其他人的任务。但最重要的是对克里希纳手稿的一丝不苟的编辑和逐字逐句的谈话。因此，我很少见到父亲。他的时间不适应孩子的时间。他通常在上午10点左右穿好衣服，不吃午饭，只在晚餐时短暂露面，一直工作到凌晨4点。他很少来欧康，更愿意和我的祖母和埃尔玛呆在好莱坞。埃尔玛非常崇拜他，她过去常常想知道，为什么我母亲嫁给了像我父亲这样迷人的男人，却似乎喜欢和这么多人在一起。她当然对克林什一无所知。如果她知道了这一点，她可能会伤心欲绝，或者她又会把这些知识纳入她广阔的哲学观之中。

    In early 1935 Rosalind discovered she was pregnant. She had been  sternly warned that another childbirth would threaten her life. To  Krishna's obvious relief, she decided not to have his child ⌒ for reasons  of health rather than discretion. She went to an osteopathic friend in a  town east of Los Angeles. Only Krishna knew about this. He was very  compassionate and comforting, getting her on and off the bus, but not  offering to accompany her. Only he could understand the need for care  she would have for the next few days. She was quite ill but her family  attributed this to a mild attack of appendicitis, to which she was subject  and from which she recovered without medical help. If Krishna felt  any compunction for his responsibility in her ordeal, he did not show  it beyond being kind and loving; not even by taking more care in the  precautions he assured Rosalind he was using. (Realistically, it is hard to  imagine how the erstwhile world teacher could have come by these pre- cautions or how she could have been so naive as to believe he had.) 
1935年初，罗莎琳德发现自己怀孕了。她曾被严厉警告过，再生一次孩子会威胁到她的生命。克里希纳显然松了一口气，她决定不生他的孩子，主要是出于健康原因，而不是出于慎重考虑。她去了洛杉矶东部一个小镇的骨科医生朋友那里。只有奎师那知道这件事。他很有同情心，也很安慰她，送她上下车，但没有提出要陪她。只有他能理解她在接下来的几天里需要照顾。她病得很重，但她的家人认为这是由于阑尾炎的轻微发作，她患有阑尾炎，在没有医疗帮助的情况下康复。如果克里希纳对他在她的苦难中所负的责任感到内疚，他也没有表现出仁慈和爱心;甚至连他向罗莎琳德保证会采取的预防措施都没有多加注意。(实际上，很难想象从前的世界老师怎么会有这些预防措施，也很难想象她怎么会如此天真地相信他有这些预防措施。)

    Sophia was not as blind as everyone else appeared to be. They had all  been together in Hollywood for an unusually long time, under Sophia's  quiet observation. 
    ?(r)You should be wary of Krishna,?± she told Rosalind, ?(r)he could ruin  your marriage. Why don't you ask Raja to take you and Radha away even to South America?'  Sophia was not a meddler in the slightest degree, even when it came  to her daughters, but she loved Raja very much as a friend and as a  son-in-law. Her insight, for she had been told nothing and was never to  be told of the actual relationship between Krishna and Rosalind, might  have startled Rosalind, but after her recent ordeal she was in no mood  to go off with Raja to a foreign land or to leave Krishna, to whom she  was after all closest at that time. 
索菲亚不像其他人看起来那么瞎。他们在好莱坞一起生活了很长一段时间，在索菲亚的安静观察下。
你应该警惕奎师那。她告诉罗莎琳德:“他可能会毁了你的婚姻。”你为什么不让拉贾带你和罗达去南美洲呢?”索菲娅一点也不多管闲事，即使是在她的女儿们身上，但她非常爱拉贾，把她当作朋友和女婿。她的洞察力，因为她什么也没被告知，也永远不会被告知克里希纳和罗莎琳德之间的实际关系，可能会吓到罗莎琳德，但在经历了最近的磨难之后，她没有心情和拉贾一起去异国他乡，也没有心情离开她当时最亲近的克里希纳。

    Raja had his second sinus operation in late January 1935, and as  he still needed time to recuperate, he remained in California while  Rosalind, Krishna and I went to New York to the Logans, where talks  were scheduled at Sarobia. Photos taken at this gathering document on  film the love that Krinsh's face could reveal when he looked at my  mother. One wonders again how those hundreds of onlookers failed  to notice ⌒ or perhaps they did and their comments, if they made any,  never reached our ears, but I think that very unlikely. 
1935年1月下旬，拉贾做了第二次鼻窦手术，由于他还需要时间休养，他留在了加利福尼亚，而罗莎琳德、克里希纳和我去了纽约的洛根夫妇，他们在萨罗比亚举行了会谈。在这个聚会上拍摄的照片用胶片记录了克林什看着我母亲时脸上流露出的爱。人们不禁要问，那几百名旁观者怎么没注意到――也许他们注意到了，他们的评论，如果有的话，从来没有传到我们的耳朵里，但我认为这是不可能的。

    I did not like getting into trouble and very seldom did, but that year  at Sarobia I once again fell foul of Mr Robbie. There were at least twenty  cats who had the run of the whole house. I knew better than to affront  Mr Robbie's favourite Pack Wack, huge and irritable and always sitting  on his desk, glaring at interrupting little girls. But one day I found a tiny  kitten all alone in the garden and carefully picked it up to return it to its  mother. I had seen the mother pick it up by the scruff of its neck and it  hadn't looked too happy about that. I thought the tail would be better.  Suddenly Mr Robbie bore down on me and, taking me firmly but not  unkindly by the hand, delivered me to my mother. By then he was  furious and scolded my mother even more than me, again not believing  her when she tried to explain that [ meant no harm. I remember feeling  comforted that she would defend me, for she was generally the strictest  person in my life, though I never remember any harshness. It is certain  that no one would have thought of laying even the mildest hand on me.  Indians were culturally opposed to disciplining small children and the  high-minded Westerners among my adults refrained, not only because  I was ostensibly being raised by Krinsh, but because I believe my Indian  features evoked an image of the suffering Indian masses. Anger retreated  before their compassion. Of course my mother suffered from no such cultural delusions and would put me in my room to think about my misdeeds, a punishment I found quite mortifying. 
我不喜欢惹麻烦，也很少惹麻烦，但那一年在萨罗比亚，我又一次得罪了罗比先生。至少有20只猫在整个房子里到处乱跑。我知道不该冒犯罗比先生最喜欢的帕克・瓦克，他身材高大，脾气暴躁，总是坐在桌子上，怒视着插嘴的小女孩。但是有一天，我在花园里发现了一只孤零零的小猫，就小心翼翼地把它捡起来交给它妈妈。我看到它的妈妈抓住它的颈背把它捡了起来，它看起来不太高兴。我觉得尾巴会更好。突然，罗比先生向我冲了过来，紧紧地拉着我的手，把我交给了母亲。到那时，他非常生气，骂我母亲比骂我还多，当她试图解释他没有恶意时，他再次不相信她。我记得她会为我辩护，这让我感到安慰，因为她通常是我一生中最严厉的人，尽管我从不记得她有什么严厉之处。可以肯定的是，没有人会想到对我动手动脚。在文化上，印度人反对管教小孩子，而我的成年人中那些高尚的西方人则有所克制，这不仅是因为我表面上是由印度人抚养长大的，还因为我相信我的印度特征唤起了一种痛苦的印度大众的形象。愤怒在他们的同情心面前退却了。当然，我的母亲没有这种文化错觉，她会把我关在房间里，让我思考我的错误行为，这是一种让我觉得很丢脸的惩罚。


    For the most part, some of my happiest memories centre around  Sarobia. The Logans loved Alice in Wonderland and had made a chess- board garden with a Humpty Dumpty sitting on the wall above it,  Sarobia also abounded in strange and wonderful living characters. There  was the artist Blossom Farley, an old man whom some took to be a bit  off, but he knew how to gather edible mushrooms and lived in a little  cottage behind the mansion. Sometimes he saw brownies and fairies  sitting on his mushrooms. I never saw these, but I did learn from him  to find the tiny turtles emerging from their eggs and to listen at night  for the screech owl that sounded like a witch laughing. The big house  had dozens of clocks, most with chimes, all set to ring harmoniously in  succession. Mr Robbie spent the better part of each Sunday winding and  setting them. In this task I seemed to be his welcome companion. 

在很大程度上，我最快乐的回忆都是围绕着萨罗比亚的。洛根一家很喜欢《爱丽丝梦游仙境》，他们造了一个棋盘花园，上面的墙上有一个胖墩儿。萨罗比亚也有很多奇怪而奇妙的人物。艺术家布洛森・法利(Blossom Farley)是一位老人，有些人认为他有点古怪，但他知道如何采摘可食用的蘑菇，住在大厦后面的一间小屋里。有时他看到布朗尼和仙女坐在他的蘑菇上。我从未见过这些，但我确实从他那里学会了如何发现从蛋里钻出来的小海龟，以及在晚上听猫头鹰的叫声，听起来像是女巫在笑。这所大房子里有几十个钟，大多数都有报时，都是一个接一个地和谐地响着。罗比先生每个星期天都把大部分时间花在缠线和安放上。在这个任务中，我似乎是他受欢迎的伙伴。


    Krinsh was at his happiest when surrounded by small groups of  intelligent and serious listeners. Everyone at the Sarobia gatherings  was there by invitation, unlike the camps at Ojai and Ommen. The  atmosphere around Krinsh was charged with many elements, but in  those days it was particularly charged with a sense of love ⌒ usually  unsentimental and undemanding with a few unwelcome and quickly  discouraged exceptions. It was my mother's unfortunate duty to deflect  from Krinsh those probably unbalanced and positively pestiferous devo- tees who inevitably turned up wherever he was. 
当被一小群聪明而严肃的听众包围时，克林什是最快乐的。每个参加萨罗比亚集会的人都是被邀请来的，不像在奥康和奥门的营地。Krinsh周围的气氛充满了许多元素，但在那些日子里，它特别充满了一种爱的感觉，通常是不多愁善感和不苛求的，除了一些不受欢迎和迅速气馁的例外。不幸的是，我母亲有责任把那些可能精神不正常、肯定是瘟疫缠身的信徒从克林什身边引开，无论他在哪里，他们都不可避免地出现在他身边。

    In late March, Raja and Byron Casselberry, a friend and helper, having  joined Krishna on the east coast, sailed for Rio de Janeiro and Rosalind  returned to California with me. It was on this South American trip  that Krishna wrote Rosalind a series of his most tender love letters.  The habit of writing to her every day, as had once been his habit with  Lady Emily, would continue through all their separations. 
三月底，拉贾和他的朋友兼助手拜伦・卡塞尔贝里在东海岸和克里希纳会合，乘船前往里约热内卢，罗莎琳德和我一起回到了加州。正是在这次南美之旅中，克里希纳给罗莎琳德写了一系列最温柔的情书。他每天给她写信的习惯，就像他从前给爱米丽夫人写信那样，在他们分开以后仍然要保持下去。

    Strangely enough Krishna was also able to focus his attention and his affection on Raja. His relationship with Rosalind did not seem to affect his behaviour toward Raja. He accepted Raja's love and commitment toward him without question. Just as Lady Emily had noticed a ?(r)divided personality' and Mrs Besant, with quite different  implication, had granted him a dual consciousness, one day both Raja     and Rosalind would wonder if Krishna were in some way more than one person. But their questioning was still far off. At this time, Raja merely struggled to keep his equilibrium in the face of Krishna's changeable personality, which led to serious misunderstandings between them and with others. Quarrels due to what Raja remembers as Krishna's frequent lying and undercutting of him, Krishna's agreeing to proposals behind  Raja's back, and making promises that could not be kept, became so  severe after several months in South America that once Krishna, who  could only take so much criticism, slapped Raja. This was not the only  time that would happen, but it was the first. Before the tour, already  cut short, was over, without explanation to anyone, Raja left Krishna  in the care of Byron Casselberry, who was translating the talks into  Spanish. Even Rosalind was not informed of Raja's sudden change  in plans. On 5 August 1935 she wrote to Blanche Matthias repeating  Krishna's explanation: 
奇怪的是，奎师那也能够把他的注意力和感情集中在拉贾身上。他和罗莎琳德的关系似乎并没有影响到他对拉贾的态度。他毫无疑问地接受了拉贾对他的爱和承诺。就像艾米丽夫人注意到一个“分裂的人格”，而贝赞特夫人则以完全不同的含义承认他有双重意识一样，总有一天，拉贾和罗莎琳德都会想知道克里希纳是否在某种程度上不止一个人。但他们的质疑还很遥远。此时，面对奎师那多变的性格，拉贾只是挣扎着保持平衡，这导致了他们之间以及与他人之间的严重误解。拉贾记得克里希纳经常撒谎和贬低他，克里希纳背着拉贾同意提议，做出无法兑现的承诺，在南美呆了几个月后，争吵变得如此严重，以至于一度只能承受如此多批评的克里希纳打了拉贾一巴掌。这不是唯一一次，但这是第一次。在短暂的旅行结束之前，拉贾没有向任何人解释，就把克里希纳交给了拜伦・卡塞尔贝里(Byron Casselberry)照顾，后者正在把谈话翻译成西班牙语。就连罗莎琳德也没有被告知拉贾突然改变了计划。1935年8月5日，她写信给Blanche Matthias，重复了克里希纳的解释:

    Dearest Blanche, 
     Krishnaji, himself made up his mind to cancel the Central American countries as he felt there was very little use in going to each one of them for only a week. That is the only reason they are returning earlier. In Rio he stayed for two months and the first few  weeks were spent in discussing all the old 1deas of Theosophy, before he was able to say what he had to say. 
亲爱的布兰奇,
克里希纳吉自己决定取消中美洲国家，因为他觉得每个国家只去一个星期没什么用。这是他们提早回国的唯一原因。他在里约待了两个月，头几个星期都在讨论神智学的旧思想，然后才说出他要说的话。

    One might surmise from this letter that whatever problems lay  between Krishna and Raja were exacerbated by Krishna's dissension  with the local Theosophists. Nitya's estrangement from his brother ten  years before was now reflected in Raja's disapproval of Krishna's critical  attitude toward those who still made up a large part of his audience.  Krishna had convinced himself that it was the Theosophists who had  turned away from him and cast him out of Adyar. The Theosophists  saw him as having left them in a strange limbo. They had been told  that no matter what he did they should follow him because he was  the world teacher, and they wondered where to turn when he rejected  that role. While Raja sympathized with Krishna's criticism of many  Theosophlcal beliefs, he felt that those who were left in this state of  confusion deserved more patience and understanding than Krishna was  willing to give them. 
人们可以从这封信中推测，无论克里希纳和拉贾之间存在什么问题，克里希纳与当地神智学家的分歧都加剧了问题。十年前尼提亚和他哥哥的疏远现在反映在拉贾不赞成克里希纳对那些仍然占他听众很大一部分的人的批评态度上。克里希纳说服自己，是神智学者们背弃了他，把他赶出了阿迪亚。神智学者们认为他使他们陷入了一个奇怪的困境。他们被告知，无论他做什么，他们都应该追随他，因为他是世界老师，当他拒绝这个角色时，他们不知道该向哪里求助。虽然拉贾同情奎师那对许多神智学信仰的批评，但他觉得那些留在这种混乱状态中的人应该得到更多的耐心和理解，而不是奎师那愿意给他们的。

    When I was still quite small, we spent a good deal of time in Hollywood.  My mother had a full life there, playing tennis and going to parties,  often leaving me with my grandmother. She was very good to my  grandmother, driving her several times a week to visit her elderly  lady friends, and the three of us went shopping together on Fridays  at Bullock's Wilshire and had lunch in its tea-room. There were also  weekly lunches with the Ingelmans, with whom Krinsh always stayed when in Hollywood. Hilda had a great fat black cat and a large  garden behind the house with beehives, which provided all of us  with generous amounts of honey. She was always telling me that  she was the first person to have ever seen me, even before my mother  had. The Ingelmans, with no children of their own, made me feel  was a good substitute. I adored them both, with their lovely melodic  Swedish accent and incredible kindness. I do not believe that in their  eyes bad people existed. Everyone who came their way seemed to be  loved and dear to them. They addressed both me and my mother as  ?(r)little darling'. 
当我还很小的时候，我们花了很多时间在好莱坞。我母亲在那里过着充实的生活，打网球，参加聚会，经常把我留在祖母那里。她对我祖母很好，每周开车送她几次去看望她的老年女性朋友，我们三个人每周五一起去布洛克威尔希尔商店购物，在茶室里吃午饭。克林什还每周与英格曼一家共进午餐，在好莱坞时，他总是和英格曼一家住在一起。希尔达有一只又肥又大的黑猫，房子后面有一个大花园，花园里有许多蜂箱，为我们大家提供了大量的蜂蜜。她总是告诉我，她是第一个见过我的人，甚至比我妈妈还早。英格曼夫妇没有自己的孩子，让我觉得他是一个很好的替代者。我很喜欢他们两个，他们可爱的瑞典口音和令人难以置信的善良。我不相信在他们眼里有坏人存在。每一个来到他们身边的人似乎都受到他们的爱戴。他们称呼我和我母亲为“小宝贝”。

    My aunt Erma was included in this circle and so was Louis Zalk, for  whom she now worked. He had lost a child some years before and had  never recovered from the grief of this loss until he met Krinsh, who,  he felt, gave him back his ability to enjoy life. Everyone could see that  he and Erma were very devoted to each other. 
    Rosalind's friendship with the Van der Leeuws had led to a deep  interest in architecture with considerable exposure to the Bauhaus  movement. She had seen the Van der Leeuws' exceptional modern  factory in Rotterdam. Kees Van der Leeuw had introduced Rosalind  to the young Austrian architect, Richard Neutra, who had moved to  America in the 1920s. 
我的姨妈埃尔玛和她现在为之工作的路易斯・扎尔克都在这个圈子里。几年前，他失去了一个孩子，一直没有从失去孩子的悲痛中恢复过来，直到他遇到了克林什，他觉得克林什让他重新拥有了享受生活的能力。每个人都能看出他和埃尔玛对彼此非常忠诚。
罗莎琳德与范・德・卢的友谊使她对建筑产生了浓厚的兴趣，并对包豪斯运动有了相当大的了解。她曾在鹿特丹参观过范德・吕家卓越的现代化工厂。Kees Van der Leeuw把Rosalind介绍给了年轻的奥地利建筑师Richard Neutra，他在20世纪20年代移居美国。

    Rosalind was fascinated to see Los Angeles through their eyes, espe- cially the site for the new University of California campus in Westwood,  of which Kees and Neutra were both very critical. With their Bauhaus  taste, they disliked the old-fashioned neo-gothic brick. Rosalind asked  Neutra to design a small flat above her mother's house on Gower Street,  so that she and Raja would have their own quarters when they were in  Hollywood. Neutra and she became good friends, although they had  vociferous arguments about colour, the one aspect of his taste with  which she was in disagreement. Neutra was to comment later that  she was the one client with whom he could not always have his way.  But the apartment was a great success. Raja now had privacy when  in Hollywood, where he mostly was, and they could give parties on  the large terrace without imposing on Sophia and Erma down below.  They were, after all, both still in their early thirties. 
罗莎琳德着迷于通过他们的眼睛看到洛杉矶，特别是在韦斯特伍德的加利福尼亚大学新校区的选址上，基斯和纽特拉都非常挑剔。由于他们的包豪斯风格，他们不喜欢老式的新哥特式砖。罗莎琳德让纽特拉在她母亲位于高尔街的房子上面设计一套小公寓，这样她和拉贾在好莱坞时就能有自己的住处了。诺伊特拉和她成了好朋友，尽管他们在颜色问题上吵得不可收拾，这是她不同意他品味的一个方面。诺伊特拉后来评论说，她是唯一一个他不能总是随心所欲的客户。但这套公寓非常成功。拉贾现在在好莱坞有了隐私，他大部分时间都在那里，他们可以在大露台上举办派对，而不会打扰楼下的索菲亚和埃尔玛。毕竟，他们都才三十出头。

    During the past few years Rosalind had also become friends of the  German movie director William Dieterle and his wife. One day we  were invited to their house to meet Keiro, the famous palmist who  had forecast many eminent futures with remarkable accuracy. He had  predicted a decade earlier that the Prince of Wales would never be King  of England. The Dieterles had taken palm prints of Krishna, Raja and Rosalind and shown them, scattered among others of their friends, to  Keiro, who immediately picked those three from the pile and said,  ?(r)Who are these people, for I have never before seen three hands so  strongly linked?' There were no names on the front side of the prints  and when he discovered who they belonged to he wanted to meet them  all, but Krishna and Raja were still in South America. 
在过去的几年里，罗莎琳德还成为了德国电影导演威廉・迪特勒和他妻子的朋友。一天，我们应邀到他们家去见著名的手相师Keiro，他曾非常准确地预测了许多杰出人物的未来。早在十年前，他就预言威尔士亲王永远不会成为英格兰国王。迪特尔夫妇拿了克里希纳、拉佳和罗莎琳德的掌纹，把散落在朋友中间的掌纹拿给基罗看。基罗立即从一堆掌纹中挑出这三个人，问道:“这些人是谁?我从来没有见过三只手如此紧密地联系在一起。”指纹的正面没有名字，当他发现是谁的时候，他想见见他们所有人，但克里希纳和拉贾还在南美。

    Keiro told Rosalind that she had a sign on her palm that indicated  a possible injury or death from a jealous woman. He said Mrs Besant  had the same sign and that in ancient Egypt girls with such signs were  put, for their own safety, in temples. ?(r)I would not be surprised to pick  up a paper one day and see that you had been murdered, the same might  have happened to Mrs Besant.' 
基罗告诉罗莎琳德，她的手掌上有一个标志，表明一个嫉妒的女人可能会伤害或死亡。他说，贝赞特夫人也有同样的牌子，在古埃及，为了自身安全，拿着这种牌子的女孩被放在寺庙里。如果有一天我拿起报纸看到你被谋杀了，我也不会感到惊讶，贝赞特夫人可能也会发生同样的事。”

    Mrs Besant's life had ended peacefully at Adyar two years before and  Rosalind was not unduly alarmed by this gloomy prophecy. But Keiro  also told her she would soon be asked to take a long flight and that she  should refuse to go for the plane would crash. When we returned to  Gower Street there was a cable waiting for her from Raja asking her  to meet them in Mexico. Fortunately for her, his quarrel with Krishna  must have occurred right after he sent it. Another cable soon arrived  cancelling the plan. Perhaps because Rosalind wasn't on it, there was  no report ofa plane crash. 
两年前，贝赞特夫人的生命在阿迪亚平静地结束了，罗莎琳德对这个悲观的预言并没有过分惊慌。但Keiro也告诉她，她很快就会被要求乘坐长途飞机，她应该拒绝去，因为飞机会坠毁。当我们回到高尔街时，有一封拉贾发来的电报在等着她，请她在墨西哥和他们见面。对她来说幸运的是，他和奎师那的争吵一定是在他发出信之后发生的。另一封电报很快就来了，取消了这个计划。也许是因为罗莎琳德不在飞机上，所以没有飞机失事的报告。

    Dev Meyers, the same friend who had rescued me from the Peeping  Tom, was so impressed that he went to Keiro for a reading too but  suffered a grave disappointment, for Keiro said practically nothing.  When Rosalind privately questioned the palmist and explained how  disappointed her friend had been, Keiro said he had indeed seen a great  deal, that Major Myers would die in a few years in a plane accident.  He never told people such news when it was inevitable. Several years  later, Dev crashed flying alone in an Air Force plane. 
戴夫・迈耶斯，就是那个把我从偷窥狂手中救出来的朋友，对他印象非常深刻，他也去基罗看了一场读书会，但却大失所望，因为基罗几乎什么也没说。当罗莎琳德私下询问看手相的人，并解释她的朋友有多么失望时，基罗说他确实看到了很多，迈尔斯少校将在几年后死于飞机事故。当这种消息不可避免时，他从不告诉别人。几年后，戴夫独自驾驶一架空军飞机坠毁。

    In 1935, again through Kees, Rosalind met the newly arrived German  actress Luise Reiner, who asked Rosalind if she would help her with  English as she particularly liked her accent. This would mean spending  a lot of time with Luise; it seemed for a while that we were all one  family for we were together almost every day. Luise took me around  with her to the studio. As my dark hair matched her colouring much  more than Rosalind's, the rumour spread ⌒ and Luise did nothing to  deny it ⌒ that I was her illegitimate daughter. I knew nothing about  the rumour and would scarcely have understood it, but I found the  stares | received from Luise's movie crowd more disturbing than the  stares around Krinsh, though my natural shyness found more refuge  in his reticence than in Luise's evident enjoyment of publicity. 
1935年，又是通过基斯，罗莎琳德认识了新来的德国女演员路易丝・莱纳，她问罗莎琳德是否愿意帮助她学习英语，因为她特别喜欢自己的口音。这意味着要花很多时间和露易丝在一起;有一段时间，我们几乎每天都在一起，似乎都是一家人。露易丝带我去了工作室。因为我的黑发比罗莎琳德的更像她的颜色，谣言传开了，路易丝没有否认我是她的私生女。我对这个谣言一无所知，也几乎不可能理解它，但我发现露易丝看电影的人群给我的目光比克林什周围的人更令人不安，尽管我天生的羞怯在他的沉默中得到了更多的庇护，而不是露易丝明显的享受公众的乐趣。
 
    Luise too wanted to be read by Keiro and was dismayed on being told  that she would go straight to the top and win more honours than anyone  in Hollywood ever had and then fall like a rocket to the bottom. (Luise  won three Oscars in a row and then disappeared from the Hollywood  scene as well as ours.) 
露易丝也想被基罗读，当被告知她将直接登上顶峰，赢得比好莱坞任何人都多的荣誉，然后像火箭一样掉到谷底时，她感到很沮丧。(露易丝连续三次获得奥斯卡奖，然后从好莱坞和我们的舞台上消失了。)

    Also that year Max Reinhardt came to America to make a film of  A Midsummer Night's Dream. William Dieterle was the co-director.  The cast was a most improbable mixture: Mickey Rooney, Olivia de  Havilland, Dick Powell and James Cagney. To these Dieterle wanted  to add me as the little Indian Prince. My father was in South America,  so he had nothing to say about it. But my grandmother, who seldom  expressed disapproval except where my welfare was concerned, was  very much opposed. Fortunately for my mother the problem was  gracefully resolved when I came down with tonsillitis that appeared  at first to be mumps. But Mr Dieterle allowed us on the set to watch  the filming. 
也是在那一年，马克斯・莱因哈特来到美国拍摄电影《仲夏夜之梦》。威廉・迪特勒(William Dieterle)是该片的联合导演。演员阵容是一个最不可思议的组合:米奇・鲁尼、奥利维亚・德・哈维兰、迪克・鲍威尔和詹姆斯・卡格尼。迪特勒还想把我加上印第安小王子的角色。我父亲当时在南美洲，所以他对此无话可说。但是我的祖母非常反对，她很少表示反对，除非涉及到我的幸福。幸运的是，当我得了扁桃体炎时，这个问题被优雅地解决了，起初看起来像是腮腺炎。但迪特勒先生允许我们在片场观看拍摄。

    Hollywood was a world apart from Krishna for both Raja and  Rosalind. With her looks and elegant style in clothes (most of which  she made herself), her Indian husband, and Indian-looking child, and  close association with an Indian sage, she presented a certain exotic  appeal which was not lost on the Hollywood of that era. The Dieterles  were more than acquaintances and she enjoyed many years of close  friendship with them. Every Christmas they sent their chauffeur to  Ojai with a carload of Christmas presents for me, all of which Rosalind  passed on to less fortunate children without my being aware of this  excessive bounty. 
对拉贾和罗莎琳德来说，好莱坞是一个与克里希纳截然不同的世界。她的外表和优雅的服装风格(大部分是她自己做的)，她的印度丈夫和印度长相的孩子，以及与一位印度圣人的密切交往，使她呈现出一种异国情调，这种情调在那个时代的好莱坞并没有消失。迪特勒夫妇不仅仅是熟人，她与他们保持了多年的亲密友谊。每年圣诞节，他们都派司机带着一车圣诞礼物去欧康，罗莎琳德把所有的礼物都传给了那些不那么幸运的孩子们，而我却没有意识到这种过度的慷慨。

    Through the Dieterles Rosalind met other Hollywood personalities,  including the film music composer William Blanke and director John  Sturges, most of whom had swimming pools, much more rare in  those days, and into which I invariably fell and had to be fished out. 
    Rosalind's former tennis days stood her in good stead too for she  found new friendships through this sport with, among others, the composer Arnold Schoenberg and the screenwriter Dorothy Arznar. 
    Dorothy introduced her to Galka Scheyer, a woman who was to have a considerable influence on Rosalind, for she encouraged her to take up painting. 
通过迪特尔夫妇，罗莎琳德结识了其他好莱坞名人，包括电影音乐作曲家威廉・布兰科(William Blanke)和导演约翰・斯特奇斯(John Sturges)，他们中的大多数人都有游泳池，在那个年代要难得多，我总是掉进游泳池里，不得不被人救出来。
罗莎琳德以前的网球生涯对她也有好处，因为她通过这项运动与作曲家阿诺德・勋伯格和编剧多萝西・阿尔兹纳等人建立了新的友谊。
多萝西把她介绍给加尔卡・谢耶，这个女人对罗莎琳德有很大的影响，因为她鼓励罗莎琳德学习绘画。

    Galka had come to America in 1924 to introduce both the paintings and the ideas of the ?(r)Blue Four?± artists, Feininger, Jawlensky, Kandinsky and Paul Klee, already well known in Europe. She played a considerable role in awakening American taste to modern art. I had my first painting Beyond the Garden experience with her and thoroughly enjoyed her method of putting water colours on already wet paper, allowing the paint its own freedom of  design. Although she preferred to teach children, she was convinced that  Rosalind must paint and was then sufficiently impressed by her work  to keep many of Rosalind's paintings in her collection. She loved her  sense of colour and if Neutra had done anything to shake my mother's  confidence, which I doubt, Galka would certainly have restored it.  remember Galka as short, wide and large-headed with red hair and the  loudest voice I had ever heard. Her forceful and loving personality can be seen in the following excerpts (not chronologically placed) of her  letters to Rosalind during the ten years of their friendship until Galka's  death in 1945. 
1924年，加尔卡来到美国，向他介绍了“蓝色四人组”的绘画和思想。±艺术家，Feininger, Jawlensky, Kandinsky和Paul Klee，在欧洲已经很有名了。她在唤醒美国人对现代艺术的品味方面起了相当大的作用。我和她一起画了我的第一幅画《花园之外》，我非常喜欢她把水彩涂在湿纸上的方法，让颜料有自己的设计自由。虽然她更喜欢教孩子，但她确信罗莎琳德一定会画画，她的作品给她留下了深刻的印象，她收藏了罗莎琳德的许多画。她喜欢自己对色彩的感觉，如果纽特拉做了什么事动摇了我母亲的信心(我对此表示怀疑)，加尔卡肯定会恢复她的信心。在我的记忆中，加尔卡长得又矮又宽，一头红发，是我听过的声音最大的人。从她写给罗莎琳德的信的节选(没有时间顺序)中可以看出她坚强而有爱心的个性，这是他们在1945年加尔卡去世之前的十年里的友谊。

    Dearest Rosaline, 
    Since I am anxious for you to continue to paint with me I have  arranged to have the grown up painting class on Fridays. I expect  you to come if it is possible for you . . . 
    I hope you will start soon. You are an artist and they are born to  create and not only have duties to care for others . . . 
    Dearest Rosaline,  I find in my book by Huxley Means and Ends (Ends and Means)  notes of following pages in the back of it.  Page 4, 44, 48, 158, 113, 313, 214, 278, 296, 309, 318, 361,  362.  I marked them in disagreement. So if you like read them and see  what you think about them. 
    It was lovely at your house. We enjoyed it very much. You are  a darling and you are very much loved by us and by me because I  need to know that you exist . . . 
亲爱的罗莎琳,
因为我很想让你继续和我一起画画，所以我安排了周五的成人绘画课。如果可能的话，我希望你能来…
我希望你能尽快开始工作。你是一个艺术家，他们是天生的创造，而不仅仅是有责任照顾别人…
最亲爱的罗莎琳，我在赫胥黎的书《目的与手段》(Ends and Means)中找到了后面几页的注释。第4、44、48、158、113、313、214、278、296、309、318、361、362页。我把他们标记为不同意。所以如果你喜欢读它们，看看你是怎么想的。
在你家过得很愉快。我们非常喜欢它。你是我的宝贝，我和我们都非常爱你，因为我需要知道你的存在…

    Dearest Rosaline, 
    Today I''m writing to tell you the tiny Puff, the smallest and favorite  of the two dogs, is staying with me with the purpose to go to Radha  when she comes back. I want her to have that dog. It is half the  size of all the others, vivid and lively and I think it is waiting to  go back to Radha and therefore pretends not to grow up and stay  a small baby. I really have not the heart to give that dog away. As |  said I want Radha to have it, except you would be really opposed to  it. If you think because you move around so much, it would bring  difficulties, I do not believe so. You can always return the dog to me and Radha can have the dog with the understanding as she had  before that it will be for the time she will stay in Ojai. Let me know  if you agree to this. 
亲爱的罗莎琳,
今天我写信是想告诉你，两只狗中最小、最喜欢的那只小泡芙和我住在一起，打算等罗达回来后去找她。我想让她养那条狗。它只有其他所有孩子的一半大小，活泼活泼，我想它正等着回到拉达身边，因此假装没有长大，继续做一个小婴儿。我实在不忍心把那条狗送人。就像我说的，我希望罗陀拥有它，除非你真的反对它。如果你认为因为你经常走动，就会带来困难，我不这么认为。你可以随时把狗还给我，拉达可以像以前一样拥有这只狗，她将在奥康待一段时间。如果你同意，请告诉我。

    Our travelling during those years was indeed extensive and probably  for this reason, as Galka feared, I did not get the little Puff.  Beatrice Wood often attended Galka's classes too. I called her Beato a nickname that became her signature on her pottery. She and  my mother would remain close for the rest of their lives and she  eventually moved to Ojai right across the street from Arya Vihara.  Beato was profoundly interested and influenced by what Krinsh had  to say, but was not drawn to him as a person as she was to both  of my parents. She dressed in an exotic and colourful manner, with  loads of heavy silvery jewellery, full skirts and large hats, all of which  was in strange contrast to her very distinguished ?(r)main line' accent.  Beato, later to be called the ?(r)Mama of Dada', knew everyone of  interest in the art and theatre world. Even when she ultimately achieved  fame as a foremost ceramicist, Beato remained a charming and utterly  unassuming person, full of wit as well as a vivid and true sense of what  was real.  Raja too had his circle of friends in Hollywood, many the same as  those of Rosalind, but some more special to him. He was a first-rate  chess player and this gave occasion for many evenings out. The amount  of social activity meant neither of them really suffered from loneliness in  their often separate lives. Though basically shy, Raja had a charmingly  naughty streak that delighted his friends, especially Beato, who felt  she had learned from him the importance of truth and of striving  for perfection. But Raja's jokes often seemed to shock Rosalind. This  naturally dampened Raja's fun and too often their evenings out together  ended in disharmony. 
在那些年里，我们的旅行确实很广泛，也许正因为这个原因，正如加尔卡所担心的那样，我没有得到小泡芙。比阿特丽斯・伍德也经常上加尔卡的课。我叫她比托，这个昵称后来成为她陶器上的签名。她和我母亲的余生都很亲密，她最终搬到了欧康，就在艾莉亚・维哈拉街对面。比托对克林什所说的话非常感兴趣，也深受其影响，但她不像对我父母那样被他这个人所吸引。她穿着异国情调和色彩缤纷的服装，戴着沉重的银色珠宝，长裙和大帽子，所有这些都与她非常杰出的主线口音形成了奇怪的对比。比托，后来被称为“达达的妈妈”，认识所有对艺术和戏剧界感兴趣的人。即使当她最终成为最重要的陶艺家时，比托仍然是一个迷人的、完全谦逊的人，充满智慧，对真实的事物有一种生动而真实的感觉。拉贾在好莱坞也有他的朋友圈，很多和罗莎琳德一样，但有些对他来说更特别。他是一流的棋手，这给了他许多晚上外出的机会。大量的社交活动意味着他们在各自的生活中都不会感到孤独。虽然拉贾基本上很害羞，但他有一种迷人的顽皮气质，这让他的朋友们很开心，尤其是比托，她觉得自己从他身上学到了真理和追求完美的重要性。但拉贾的笑话似乎经常让罗莎琳德感到震惊。这自然会影响拉贾的乐趣，他们一起出去玩的夜晚常常以不和谐告终。

    Rosalind adjusted easily from her life in Hollywood to the equal  amount of time she spent in Ojai when Krishna was in America. As  the office work was at that time all centred in Hollywood, it was  difficult for Raja to get away. This left Rosalind to run Arya Vihara  and see to Krishna's welfare while he was in Ojai. 
当克里希纳在美国的时候，罗莎琳德很容易就适应了她在奥康的生活。由于当时办公室的工作都集中在好莱坞，拉贾很难脱身。这让罗莎琳德管理艾莉亚维哈拉，并在奎师那在欧康时照顾他的福利。

    Krinsh had returned exhausted from South America. Rosalind had not  been told of his quarrel with Raja so she had no reason to feel caught  in the two men's conflict. She only knew that the steady flow of letters  from Krishna had reaffirmed his love for her. In late winter of 1936,  the three of us without my father went to Carmel for a month's rest, staying as usual at Peter Pan Lodge. Winter in Carmel is even more  beautiful than summer, for the weather is clear and enormous waves  rise and crash over the rocks at Point Lobos. The sea-lions bark and  the sea is deep sapphire. 
克林什从南美回来时已经筋疲力尽了。罗莎琳德没有被告知他和拉贾的争吵，所以她没有理由觉得自己被卷入了两人的冲突。她只知道，奎师那源源不断的来信再次证实了他对她的爱。1936年冬末，没有父亲的我们一家三口去卡梅尔度假一个月，像往常一样住在彼得潘旅馆。卡梅尔的冬天比夏天更美丽，因为天气晴朗，巨大的海浪在洛博斯角的岩石上汹涌澎湃。海狮吠叫，大海深如蓝宝石。

    It was not long before Rosalind was again pregnant. This time the  decision as to what to do about it was taken out of her hands. One  day in Hollywood Krishna and Raja had one of their more terrible  arguments in front of Rosalind and Sophia. Rosalind was not involved  and can no longer remember what it was about, but she was highly  distressed that the two men would shout at each other in front of her  mother. They must have forgotten her presence for it was very rare  for either of them, but especially Krishna, to expose this side of their  relationship to anyone. Leaving me in Hollywood, as she sometimes  did, Rosalind and Krishna left that evening to drive back to Ojai. She  had been deeply shaken and upset by the quarrel and was convinced  that it was the cause of her losing on the way to Ojai, in an isolated  field, this second baby with Krishna. He was, as usual, tender, kind  and loving and helped her as best he could. 
没过多久，罗莎琳德又怀孕了。这一次，如何处理这件事的决定权不在她手中了。一天，在好莱坞，克里希纳和拉贾在罗莎琳德和索菲亚面前发生了一场更可怕的争吵。罗莎琳德没有参与其中，也不记得是怎么回事，但她非常苦恼，因为这两个男人会在她母亲面前互相大喊大叫。他们一定是忘记了她的存在，因为他们中的任何一个人，尤其是克里希纳，都很少向任何人暴露他们关系的这一面。罗莎琳德和克里希纳把我留在好莱坞，就像她有时做的那样，那天晚上她们开车回奥康。她被这场争吵深深震撼和不安，并确信这是她在前往奥康的路上失去与克里希纳的第二个孩子的原因。他像往常一样，温柔、善良、有爱心，尽他所能地帮助她。

    It took some time, however, for Rosalind to recover fully from this  ordeal and Krishna remained solicitous throughout the spring. He  insisted that she should not over-do it, that she get enough rest,  and he spent time reading to her to keep her quiet, and he played  with me. Of course I did not understand what was wrong with my  mother, but I remember sharing Krinsh's concern. 
然而，罗莎琳德花了一段时间才完全从这场磨难中恢复过来，奎师那整个春天都很关心她。他坚持让她不要过度劳累，让她得到足够的休息，他花时间给她读书，让她保持安静，他和我一起玩。当然，我不明白母亲是怎么了，但我记得我和克林什一样担心。

    This much loving care was rarely to be enjoyed by Rosalind. She had  strong physical endurance and a high threshold of pain. She never cared  for her own comfort, yet had to adapt to living with and caring for  two men of extreme physical sensitivity. She always had a remarkable  ability to discard and forget what troubled her, to see the world as  she wished it to be. However, when faced with recalling an actual  memory she could bring it back fully but seemed to set herself apart  as though it were another person who had lived through it. It may  be that she simply had a remarkable capacity for acceptance of certain  things like pain and death as natural and inevitable circumstances. She  still had Krishna's love and their relationship would continue unde- tected. For the most part the three of them contained their contentious  moments in a private realm. In these earlier years they all felt a very  real bond of affection. It was this bond that made them subject to  idealization by both friends and strangers. Rosalind wrote a letter to  Blanche which reflects a period of harmony at yet another gathering  at Sarobia. 
罗莎琳德很少能享受到如此多的关爱。她有很强的身体耐力和高的疼痛阈值。她从不关心自己的舒适，却不得不适应和两个身体极度敏感的男人一起生活和照顾。她总是有一种非凡的能力，可以抛弃和忘记困扰她的事情，看到她所希望的世界。然而，当面对回忆一段真实的记忆时，她可以把它完全带回来，但似乎把自己区分开来，就好像是另一个经历过这段记忆的人。也许她只是有一种非凡的能力，可以接受某些事情，比如痛苦和死亡，将其视为自然和不可避免的情况。她仍然有奎师那的爱，他们的关系将继续不受影响。在大多数情况下，他们三个人都把他们的争论时刻隐藏在一个私人领域。在最初的几年里，他们都感受到一种非常真实的感情纽带。正是这种联系使他们成为朋友和陌生人理想化的对象。罗莎琳德给布兰奇写了一封信，这封信反映了萨罗比亚又一次聚会上的和谐。
                   
 
    June 28 ??36 
    Dear Blanche, . 
    You really should have been here it has all been so lovely, and everyone seemed to enjoy it so much in such a deep sense. Also the discussions which were held every other day, were the best 1 have ever heard. Krishnaji gave two splendid talks in New York and three here. They were corrected and sent off the next day. Rajagopal said they were well done too. Altogether there were five talks and so many have said they have never heard him speak so well before. I think so too. In a few days we sail. 
6月28日??36
亲爱的布兰奇:
你真应该来的，一切都那么美好，每个人似乎都很享受，发自内心地享受。每隔一天举行一次的讨论也是我所听到过的最好的讨论。克里希那吉在纽约做了两次精彩的演讲，在这里做了三次。他们被纠正了，第二天就被打发走了。Rajagopal说他们也做得很好。总共有五次演讲，很多人说他们以前从未听过他说得这么好。我也这么认为。几天后我们就要起航了。

    At five years old I was sailing to Europe for the second time. The  Ommen Camp was an exciting place for me. Krinsh sometimes let  me sit next to him in the big tent where the discussions were held;  while it was hard to sit there the whole time, I believe I managed to  do so. There were other children about, but mostly I was, as usual,  in an adult world. 
五岁时，我第二次乘船去欧洲。欧门营地对我来说是一个令人兴奋的地方。在讨论的大帐篷里，克林什有时会让我坐在他旁边;虽然一直坐在那里很难，但我相信我做到了。周围还有其他孩子，但大多数时候，像往常一样，我是在一个成年人的世界里。

    Sometimes those two summers at Ommen mingle in my mind and [  am not certain to which one specific memories belong. There are visions  of the Indian sisters of the Sarabhai family taking long hot showers in  the communal shower room at the end of the hall and my fascination  at their graceful winding in and out of their saris. 
有时候，在欧曼的那两个夏天会在我的脑海中浮现，我不确定哪一段记忆属于我。我看到萨拉布海家族的印度姐妹们在大厅尽头的公共浴室里长时间洗热水澡，我对她们优雅地进出纱丽感到着迷。

    I remember the great white house called Henan in which we stayed,  surrounded by people who lavished on me the love and gratitude they  felt toward Krinsh but were unable to express directly to him because  of his precept against devotees. My mother waged a constant battle to  prevent me from becoming spoiled. 
我记得我们住过的那座叫做河南的白色大房子，周围的人对我慷慨地表达了他们对克林什的爱和感激，但由于他对奉献者的戒律，他们无法直接向他表达。为了不让我被宠坏，我母亲不断地与我作斗争。

    There was a little seat attached to the back of Krinsh's bicycle for  me. Krinsh biked me around the beautiful pine-forested grounds, past  the barn with little piglets and the fat pink sow ⌒ probably my first  sight of that species, Eerde castle with its moat and swans, the camp  fire circle in the sand dunes. I had been sternly warned never to take  my feet off the foot rests. One day curiosity got the better of me and  I lifted my right foot off the rest. It was instantly caught up in the  spokes throwing us both off the bicycle. My heel was cut to the bone.  Krinsh was adept in a physical crisis. I can remember feeling no fear  and much comfort as he carried me back to my mother. I was laid  up for some time after that, but was showered with attention from  the scores of followers in the camp who were much concerned with  the well-being of a creature so close to Krinsh. Attention was not my  sole prerogative for long. Sara Logan was suddenly stricken by a severe attack of appendicitis and needed care. She was to die a few years later  from complications resulting from the ensuing surgery. 

在克林什的自行车后面有一个小座位，是给我的。Krinsh骑着自行车带我在美丽的松林里转了一圈，经过了有小猪和胖胖的粉色母猪的谷仓――这可能是我第一次见到这种动物，还有有着护城河和天鹅的Eerde城堡，沙丘上的篝火。我被严厉地警告过，永远不要把脚从脚凳上拿开。有一天，好奇心控制了我，我把右脚从其他脚上抬了起来。它立刻被辐条缠住了，把我们俩都从自行车上摔了下来。我的脚后跟被切得只剩骨头了。克林什擅长处理身体危机。我记得，当他把我抱回母亲身边时，我一点也不害怕，反而感到很舒服。在那之后，我躺了一段时间，但营地里的几十个追随者对我倾注了大量的关注，他们非常关心这个离克林什这么近的动物的健康状况。长久以来，注意力并不是我唯一的特权。萨拉・洛根突然患上了严重的阑尾炎，需要治疗。几年后，她死于随后手术引起的并发症。

    After the camp, my mother had flown to London with Krinsh for a  short rest, leaving me again at Ommen with plenty of ladies to help  my father look after me. I can remember one morning awakening in  my crib, which was covered with a white net, and secing a large red  rose lying over my head. I do not remember feeling sad, just looking  at the rose and knowing it was there instead of my mother. 
夏令营结束后，母亲带着克林什飞往伦敦短暂休息，把我留在欧门，让许多女士帮父亲照顾我。我还记得有一天早晨醒来时，我的婴儿床上盖着一张白色的网，我看到一朵大红玫瑰躺在我的头上。我不记得有什么悲伤，只是看着那朵玫瑰，知道它在那里，而不是我的母亲。

    It had been an exhausting session for my mother, trying to keep a  laid-up child happy and to look after the seriously ill Sara. She was  confined to the house and had even missed the lectures which had been  attended by nearly a thousand people. She was also depressed by the  cloud of impending war. Like Mr Robbie, she had pacifism in her genes  and was proud of her grandfather, Carl Waldo, who had risked being  stoned on the street corners of Buffalo to speak against the Civil War.  Along with others of her generation, she had believed the First World  War would end all wars and her father's friendship with Woodrow  Wilson and his serving on Wilson's Peace Commission had heightened  her optimism. It was now evident that peace was fast sinking beneath  one horizon as war rose over another. 
对我母亲来说，这是一个令人筋疲力尽的过程，她既要照顾一个卧床不起的孩子，又要照顾重病的萨拉。她被限制在家里，甚至错过了有近千人参加的讲座。战争即将来临的阴云也使她感到沮丧。和罗比一样，她的基因里也有和平主义，并为她的祖父卡尔・沃尔多(Carl Waldo)感到骄傲。卡尔・沃尔多曾冒着在布法罗街头被石头砸死的危险，发表反对内战的言论。和她那一代的其他人一样，她相信第一次世界大战将结束所有的战争，她父亲与伍德罗・威尔逊的友谊以及他在威尔逊和平委员会的工作使她更加乐观。现在很明显，和平正在一个地平线下迅速下沉，而战争则在另一个地平线上抬头。

    Those times were rare when I was left with my father. I remember  them as very special. From him I learned a different sort of knowledge  than from Krinsh. My father taught me to tell the time, to use numbers,  and to take an interest in good handwriting. He read me stories from  the Indian Jataka tales and from the Bible. His gifts to me were usually  books. We never played hide and seek, but we played indoor games  like Chinese chequers. He did not care what I ate or when I went to  bed and put very few demands on my behaviour as long as I did not  disturb anyone. It was he who somehow instilled in me the importance  of being truthful and the undesirability of hypocrisy. 
我很少和父亲呆在一起。我记得它们很特别。我从他那里学到的知识与从克林什那里学到的不同。父亲教我看时间、使用数字，并培养我对书法的兴趣。他给我读了印度的《贾塔卡》和《圣经》中的故事。他送给我的礼物通常是书。我们从不玩捉迷藏，但我们玩室内游戏，比如中国跳棋。他不在乎我吃什么，什么时候睡觉，只要我不打扰别人，他对我的行为也很少要求。是他以某种方式向我灌输了诚实的重要性和虚伪的不可取之处。

    After one of his operations he had lost fecling in his right hand, which  made it difficult for him to do many things ⌒braid my hair or tie shoelaces.  By sheer will power he did not let it affect his beautiful handwriting. 
在一次手术后，他的右手失去了知觉，这使他做很多事情都很困难，比如给我编辫子或系鞋带。纯粹凭意志力，他没有让它影响他漂亮的笔迹。

    When my mother and Krinsh returned from England we all  had a holiday in Villars in Switzerland. We stayed in a charm- ing old hotel, at which a solicitous devotee, who had obtained a  miraculous cure at the Bircher-Benner Clinic in Zurich, had already  established herself. She showed the cook how to make Bircher  muesli, a then unknown nutritional marvel and persuaded Krinsh  that we must all eat it every morning. To this day hotels all over  Switzerland and even the Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong serve muesli. 
 当我母亲和克林什从英国回来时，我们都去瑞士的维拉尔度假了。我们住在一家迷人的老旅馆里，那里有一位热心的信徒，她在苏黎世的伯彻-本纳诊所得到了奇迹般的治疗，已经在那里住了下来。她向厨师展示了如何制作当时还不为人知的营养奇迹――伯彻什米粥，并说服了克林什，我们每天早上都必须吃它。直到今天，瑞士所有的酒店，甚至香港的半岛酒店都供应什锦麦片。

    After this unusual breakfast, Krinsh and [ took walks every morning,  watching the cows with varying sizes of Swiss cow-bells going to  pasture. Krinsh would rub his head with pine needles because he  thought it good for his hair. (Later he would discover he was allergic  to pine needles.) 
吃完这顿不寻常的早餐后，克林什和[每天早上散步，看着戴着不同大小的瑞士牛铃的奶牛去吃草。克林什会用松针擦他的头，因为他认为这对他的头发有好处。(后来他发现自己对松针过敏。)

    Our association with Krinsh led to encounters with an incredible variety  of people. Some accepted us merely as part of his entourage. Many  became close friends of us all or one or the other of my parents or  myself for reasons that extended beyond Krinsh's sphere. 
我们与克林什的交往让我们遇到了各种各样的人。有些人只把我们当作他的随从。许多人成为了我们所有人的亲密朋友，或者是我父母中的一个或另一个，或者是我自己，原因超出了克林什的范围。

    Among them was Molly Berkeley, an American from the Lowell  family, who divorced an American husband with whom she was bored  and later married the Eighth and last Earl of Berkeley, whom she had  met at a country weekend in England. Her hostess warned her that  there would be a guest who did not like Americans. This guest, Lord  Berkeley, arrived, saw Molly across the room and came straight over  to meet her. He said, ?(r)I have a question to ask you.?± He was suddenly  interrupted and didn't have another chance to talk to her that evening.  A few weeks later they met again at a hunt and he was impressed by  Molly's superb horsemanship. He asked her to dine with him and at  the end of the evening he reminded her of the question he had been  about to ask when they first met. 
莫利・伯克利(Molly Berkeley)就是其中之一，她来自洛厄尔(Lowell)家族，她与一位美国丈夫离婚，她对丈夫感到厌倦，后来嫁给了第八任也是最后一任伯克利伯爵(Earl of Berkeley)，她是在英国的一个乡村周末认识他的。女主人警告她说，会有一位不喜欢美国人的客人。这位客人，伯克利勋爵来了，他看见莫利在房间的另一头，就径直走过去迎接她。他说:我有个问题要问你。他突然被打断了，那天晚上再也没有机会和她说话了。几周后，他们在一次狩猎中再次相遇，莫丽高超的骑术给他留下了深刻的印象。他邀请她共进晚餐，晚餐结束时，他提醒她第一次见面时他想问的问题。

    ?(r)I'd like to ask it now,?± he said. ?°Will you marry me?'  ?(r)I will,?± she replied, ?(r)but you will have to live in my little cottage in  Santa Barbara, California, because I cannot live anywhere else.' 
我想现在就问。他说。你愿意嫁给我吗?(r)我会的。她回答说:“但你必须住在我在加州圣巴巴拉的小别墅里，因为我不能住在别的地方。”

    As a peer whose ancestry went back to the Norman Conquest, Lord  Berkeley was known to have thought it beneath him to entertain the  King and Queen of England, whom he called ?(r)those Huns'. He said  that, of course, he could not live in Santa Barbara. So they parted.  When Molly arrived back in America, she was met at the ship with  great bouquets of roses and a cable declaring. ?(r)I cannot live without  you. [ will live in Santa Barbara.' 
作为一名贵族，伯克利勋爵的祖先可以追溯到诺曼征服时期，众所周知，他认为款待英国国王和王后有失身份，他称他们为“匈奴人”。他说，当然，他不能住在圣巴巴拉。于是他们分手了。莫莉回到美国后，在船上迎接她的是一大束玫瑰花和一份声明电报。没有你我活不下去。我将住在圣巴巴拉。”

    They spent a few summers in what she called her cottage but which  was in fact a sizeable villa on a hilltop above Montecito. Lord Berkeley  had it painted a dreadful shade of Kelly green, his hunting colour. As  he wished to give large dinner parties starting at nine in the evening  and in the style to which he was accustomed, and as it was not possible  to find staff in Santa Barbara who would fulfil these exacting demands  and hours, Molly found it increasingly difficult to live there. In 1939 the  war in Europe prevented them from returning to America and Molly  offered the house to us; we lived there for six months. 
他们在她所谓的“小屋”里度过了几个夏天，但实际上那是蒙特西托山顶上的一座相当大的别墅。伯克利勋爵让人把它漆成了可怕的凯利绿，那是他打猎时用的颜色。他希望在晚上9点开始举办大型宴会，按照他习惯的方式，而且在圣巴巴拉找不到能满足这些严格要求和工作时间的工作人员，莫利发现在那里生活越来越困难。1939年，欧洲的战争使他们无法回到美国，莫莉把房子给了我们;我们在那里住了六个月。

    I never met Lord Berkeley, but my mother stayed at Berkeley Castle  before I was born and played chess with him every evening. When I  visited the castle as a tourist many years later I hoped that my mother,  always a vegetarian, had not been told of the ancient custom of throwing  cows' carcasses down a pit in the prisoners' wing to asphyxiate the  inmates by the stench; or of the horrible death of Edward II, who failed  to be asphyxiated in time. People with Theosophical backgrounds who  pride themselves on being sensitive to vibrations would not rest easy  in Berkeley Castle. 
我从未见过伯克利勋爵，但我母亲在我出生前就住在伯克利城堡，每天晚上都和他下棋。多年以后，当我以游客的身份参观这座城堡时，我希望永远吃素的母亲没有被告知有一种古老的习俗，那就是把牛的尸体扔进囚犯区的一个坑里，让囚犯被臭气呛死;爱德华二世没能及时窒息而死那些以对振动敏感而自豪的有神智学背景的人不会在伯克利城堡里安枕无忧。

    We remained friends with Molly until her death in Assisi over a decade  ago. On a last visit there she told me how, with one short sentence,  Krinsh had helped her. She had complained to him of dissatisfaction  with her life: the great castle in England to run, the villa in Rome, it  was all too much with the servants and entertaining. ?(r)Either leave or  put up with it,?± he told her, and that was all it took to enable her to  settle down peacefully with her husband until his death. Alone during  the war, she was bombed in London and was left for two days buried  in a cellar. She became a Roman Catholic after that and retired to Assisi,  her final home. An American priest was there the day I visited her shortly  before her death. Suddenly she turned to me and said, ?(r)Krishnamurti has  more wisdom in his little finger than the whole Catholic church put  together.' I shall never forget the priest's expression. 
我们一直是莫莉的朋友，直到她十多年前在阿西西去世。在最后一次去那里的时候，她告诉我，用一个简短的句子，克林什是如何帮助她的。她曾向他抱怨过自己对生活的不满:要管理英国的大城堡，罗马的别墅，佣人和娱乐太多了。要么离开，要么忍受。他告诉了她，这就是让她和丈夫和平地安定下来直到他去世所需要的一切。战争期间，她独自一人在伦敦遭到轰炸，被埋在地窖里两天。在那之后，她成为了一名罗马天主教徒，并退休到阿西西，这是她最后的家。在她去世前不久，我去拜访她的那天，一位美国牧师也在那里。突然，她转向我，对我说:“克里希那穆提小手指里的智慧比整个天主教会加起来的还要多。”我永远不会忘记牧师的表情。

    In 1936, after Villars, Sara Logan joined us and we all stayed with  Molly in her villa in Rome. I remember a great dining table with a  footman behind each chair and things being handed to me before I  knew I wanted them. 
1936年，离开维拉斯，萨拉・洛根加入了我们，我们都住在莫莉在罗马的别墅里。我记得有一张很大的餐桌，每张椅子后面都有一个男仆，我还不知道自己想要什么东西，就有人把它们递给了我。

    My parents were quite convinced that summer of the great danger  to civilization. My mother did not know it would be our last summer  in Europe for many years, but she must have sensed it for I can  still remember her taking me to the Sistine chapel and impressing  Michelangelo's paintings on me as ifI might never see them again.  I returned twenty years later, but I still remember that first viewing  most vividly, especially the hand of God reaching toward Adam. 
那年夏天，我的父母非常确信文明面临着巨大的危险。我母亲并不知道那将是我们多年来在欧洲的最后一个夏天，但她一定感觉到了，因为我还记得她带我去西斯廷教堂，给我留下米开朗基罗的画的深刻印象，仿佛我再也见不到它们似的。二十年后我又回来了，但我仍然清楚地记得第一次看到的情景，尤其是上帝向亚当伸出的手。

    As children have their own sense of the important, I remember  equally well my first giraffe, which I saw in Rome Zoo, commenting,  to the amusement of my adults, that its eyes were like Rukmini's but  its legs were like Krinsh's. 
孩子们对事物的重要性有自己的看法，我同样清楚地记得我的第一只长颈鹿，我在罗马动物园看到它，当时我说它的眼睛像鲁米尼的，腿像克林什的，这让大人们感到好笑。

    We were taken to tea one afternoon at the castle of Count Orsini,  the last of his line. I promptly disappeared down a spiral staircase into  the dungeons, causing consternation to my parents, but evidently not annoying the old Count for he gave me a carved wooden dog-clock  which still ticks intermittently. 
一天下午，我们被带到奥尔西尼伯爵的城堡里喝茶，他是他家族的最后一位继承人。我立刻走下螺旋形楼梯，进了地牢，这使我的父母大为吃惊，但显然没有惹恼老伯爵，因为他给了我一个木雕的狗钟，至今还在断断续续地滴答作响。

    Sara Logan sailed back to America with my mother and me. We  passed the rock of Gibraltar, another landmark that was thoroughly  impressed upon me. The voyage was so rough that Sara and I were  the only passengers on deck. One day a careless deck-hand left open  the guard rail at the rear of the ship. He had failed to notice one little  girl and a lone lady who had survived the rough seas to wander up on  deck together. I eluded Sara's attention for a nearly fatal instant and  hung fascinated over the open drop to the churning waters above the  propeller. The Conte di Savoia was a very large ship and I must have  been several storeys above the water. I never forgot Sara's calm but  firm grip on my arm as she pulled me away from the precipice and  led me, without a trace of anger, to safety. She was too fair to blame  me but I can now imagine the fright I gave her. It was on this voyage,  left solely in her company, that I developed a still deeper attachment  to this person who had taken both me and my mother into her heart  as her own family. She would be my first loss and one I would never  forget. 
萨拉・洛根和我妈妈一起坐船回美国了。我们经过了直布罗陀岩石，这是另一个给我留下深刻印象的地标。航行非常艰难，甲板上只有萨拉和我两个乘客。一天，一个粗心的甲板水手把船后面的护栏忘了。他没有注意到一个小女孩和一个孤独的女士在波涛汹涌的大海中幸存下来，一起在甲板上徘徊。在那几乎致命的一瞬间，我躲开了萨拉的注意，全神贯注地注视着螺旋桨上方翻腾的水面。“萨瓦伯爵号”是一艘非常大的船，我当时一定在水面上好几层楼高的地方。我永远不会忘记萨拉平静而坚定地抓住我的手臂，把我从悬崖上拉下来，带我到安全的地方，没有一丝愤怒。她很公平，不会责怪我，但我现在可以想象我给她带来的恐惧。正是在这次航行中，独自一人和她在一起，我对这位把我和母亲都当作自己家人看待的人产生了更深的感情。她将是我的第一次损失，我永远不会忘记。
 