16 Sages and Shadows 圣贤与暗影

    Although Krinsh was certainly the magnet that attracted people to our  lives, there were a few, like Sara and Robert, who turned their main  focus on Rosalind. Robert was like a father to her and did much to  replace her own father whom she had left when she was sixteen. Much  as Sara loved and admired Raja and Krishna, my mother remembers  her saying that women should not live in dependency on men and  that she was going to see to it that some day Rosalind would have  financial independence. At the time Rosalind paid no attention to these  comments. Years later she would understand the seriousness of Sara's  intentions. Before she died, Sara asked Robert to honour in his will her  wish that Rosalind would inherit a sizeable portion of their estate. They  both had faith that she would do something worthwhile with her life,  independent of Krishna or Raja. 
虽然克林什无疑是一块磁石，把人们吸引到我们的生活中来，但也有一些人，比如萨拉和罗伯特，把他们的主要注意力转向了罗莎琳德。罗伯特对她来说就像父亲一样，他做了很多事情来代替她十六岁时离开的父亲。尽管萨拉深爱并钦佩拉贾和克里希纳，但我母亲记得她说过，女人不应该依赖男人生活，她要确保罗莎琳德有一天能在经济上独立。当时罗莎琳没有注意到这些评论。多年以后，她才会明白萨拉意图的严重性。在她去世之前，萨拉要求罗伯特在遗嘱中尊重她的愿望，让罗莎琳德继承他们相当大一部分的遗产。他们都相信她会独立于奎师那或拉贾，做一些有价值的事情。

    Sara built an apartment for Rosalind on the second floor of Arya  Vihara. She thought Raja's rheumatism would improve if he slept on  an upper level, but her main purpose was to provide them with more  privacy than the downstairs of Arya Vihara afforded. Sara did not realize  that Raja and Rosalind were living separate marital lives and she certainly  did not realize that the apartment with its front and rear outside staircases  would grant Krishna even greater opportunity to visit Rosalind in Raja's  absences from Ojai. Nor did I ever mention to anyone those frequent  early mornings when from my bedroom window I saw Krinsh, in the  white raw silk nightshirts that my mother made for him, creeping up  the stairs with a flower in his hand. Those were their times together,  early mornings and sometimes late evenings, after | was supposed to  be safely tucked away in bed. 
Sara在Arya Vihara的二楼为Rosalind建了一间公寓。她认为如果拉贾睡在楼上，他的风湿病会好转，但她的主要目的是为他们提供更多的隐私，而不是在楼下的艾莉亚维哈拉。萨拉没有意识到拉贾和罗莎琳德的婚姻生活是分开的，她当然也没有意识到，这套前后都有外部楼梯的公寓会让克里希纳在拉贾不在奥海的时候有更多的机会去看望罗莎琳德。我也从来没有对任何人提起过那些频繁的清晨，我从卧室的窗户看到克林什，穿着我母亲为他做的白色生丝睡衣，手里拿着一朵花爬上楼梯。那些是他们在一起的时光，清晨，有时是深夜，在我应该安全地躺在床上之后。

    In the summer of 1937 my mother and [ went east, first to the Logan's  summer place in Winter Harbor and then to Sarobia to meet my father  and Krinsh, who were arriving from Europe. 
1937年夏天，我母亲和我去了东部，先是去了冬季港的洛根避暑山庄，然后去萨罗维亚见了从欧洲来的父亲和克林什。

    The Winter Harbor house was a large, typical New England summer  house. There was a sloping green lawn to the bluff above the rocky  beach. We had blueberries every morning for breakfast, freshly picked from the surrounding woods. My mother and Sara spent hours putting  together puzzles or playing chess while I roamed about the gardens,  often following Mr Robbie doing those chores he so assiduously set  for himself. 
冬港别墅是一座典型的新英格兰避暑别墅。岩石海滩上方的断崖上有一片绿色的草坪。我们每天早上都吃蓝莓，都是从周围的树林里新鲜采摘的。妈妈和萨拉会花上几个小时拼拼图或下象棋，而我则在花园里漫步，经常跟着罗比先生做他孜孜不倦地为自己布置的家务。

    The Logans believed in self-sufficiency and they ran a household with  minimal servants. Guests washed their own dishes and helped with the  cooking; even if they were European princesses, of whom there was  one in the house that summer. I cannot remember why she was there  for no one seemed to know her very well, but the Logans were already  beginning their era of hospitality to the displaced fugitives of fascism.  This particular Princess was pretty but in my six year old's opinion,  spoiled. She had no idea how to wait on herself. She and my mother  played tennis together while I sat on the sidelines and struck up a  friendship with an elderly gentleman who later insisted my mother  bring me to tea in his Park Avenue apartment. 
罗根一家相信自给自足，他们经营着一个只有最少仆人的家庭。客人们自己洗碗，帮忙做饭;即使她们是欧洲的公主，那年夏天家里就住着一位这样的公主。我不记得她为什么在那里，因为似乎没有人很了解她，但洛根一家已经开始了他们接待法西斯主义逃亡者的时代。这个特别的公主很漂亮，但在我六岁的孩子看来，被宠坏了。她不知道如何伺候自己。她和我母亲一起打网球，而我坐在场边，并与一位年长的绅士建立了友谊，后来他坚持要我母亲带我去他在公园大道的公寓喝茶。


    Sara and Robert were abruptly called away to California by a crisis  in their daughter Deborah's life. The Princess took advantage of our  hosts' absence to insist that my mother and I move out of the room  Sara had assigned us. She claimed it was more suitable for her. My  mother complied without hesitation for her nature was such that she  never felt comfortable with anything that anyone else coveted, but Sara  was indignant when she later found out. 
由于女儿黛博拉的生活出现了危机，萨拉和罗伯特突然被叫去了加利福尼亚。公主利用主人不在的机会，坚持要我和母亲搬出萨拉给我们安排的房间。她声称这更适合她。我的母亲毫不犹豫地答应了，因为她的本性就是对别人觊觎的东西永远不会感到舒服，但萨拉后来发现后非常愤怒。

    The Logans' tragedy centred around Deborah, their only child. Eight- een years before, when she was not quite twenty years old, Deborah had  fallen under the influence of a doctor of sorts, a hypnotist who had in- duced Deborah to marry him and adopt his daughter, presumably in the  hope of acquiring the Logan fortune. This man had had two previous  wives, and Deborah claimed the last wife had died an unnatural death.  She told Sara that she had even been forced to help dispose of the  dismembered body, but the whole story was so improbable and grisly,  so alien to everything in their lives, lives which tolerated no form of  killing ⌒ even a fly ⌒ that Sara could not decide whether Deborah was  hallucinating or had been hypnotized by her husband in order to bring  her under his control. If the story were true she knew that to open  an inquiry would create a horrible scandal and do worse damage to  Deborah. She was afraid to tell Robert, fearing that his pacifism might  be overridden by his anger against a man who had so used his daughter.  The worst of all for Sara to bear was that it was her own interest in this  doctor's unorthodox medicine that had led to his meeting Deborah and  inducing her away from her parents to California. It is an indication of  her love and confidence in Rosalind that she told her alone the details of this story. Rosalind bore the burden of that terrible secret in silence for  over forty years. Sara and Robert succeeded finally in rescuing Deborah  from the clutches of this man, only to find her so badly damaged that  they despaired of her ever recovering from the mental breakdown which  she suffered that summer. 
洛根夫妇的悲剧集中在他们唯一的孩子黛博拉身上。八年前，黛博拉还不到二十岁的时候，她受到了一个医生的影响，一个催眠师，他诱使黛博拉嫁给了他，并收养了他的女儿，大概是希望得到洛根家的财产。这个男人有两个前妻，黛博拉声称最后一个妻子非正常死亡。她告诉萨拉，她甚至被迫帮助处理被肢解的尸体，但整个故事是如此不可思议和可怕，与他们生活中的一切都如此陌生，他们的生活不容忍任何形式的杀戮，甚至是一只苍蝇，以至于萨拉无法确定黛博拉是产生了幻觉，还是被她丈夫催眠了，以便把她控制在他的控制之下。如果故事是真的，她知道展开调查将会造成可怕的丑闻，对黛博拉造成更大的伤害。她不敢告诉罗伯特，担心他的和平主义会被他对一个如此利用他女儿的男人的愤怒所压倒。对萨拉来说，最糟糕的是，正是她自己对这位医生的非正统疗法感兴趣，才导致他认识了黛博拉，并诱使她离开父母来到加利福尼亚。她把这个故事的细节单独告诉罗莎琳德，这表明她对她的爱和信任。四十多年来，罗莎琳德默默承受着这个可怕的秘密。萨拉和罗伯特最终成功地把黛博拉从这个男人的魔掌中救了出来，却发现她受到了如此严重的伤害，以至于他们对她从那年夏天遭受的精神崩溃中恢复过来感到绝望。


    In the midst of her tribulations Sara took the time to write to Rosalind  just after she arrived in California. 
在她的苦难之中，萨拉花时间给罗莎琳德写信，就在她到达加利福尼亚之后。

    Fri. P. M., July 30th, 1937 
    Dear Rosie,  I do hope you are having breakfast in bed and resting, a real rest 
    ⌒ and some tennis . . . I saw Deborah twice! It is very terrible! 1  cannot be sure she knew me. Got Dr White [Deborah's husband]  to sign for her at a private hospital. She is to see no one and they  do not want her to even have me go in to see her but of course I  simply had to . . . They say it is a kind of mental case that never  gets well or kills ⌒ she is strong physically. IfI could only be with  her I feel it might help at some ofthand moment, but, as Rob says  the Doctor is very fine, is tremendously interested in the case and  White's queer ways and that she for the 1st time 1n all these years  is out of his house and influence. That is some hope that she might  at least be free of his pull . . . The Doctor says this phase lasts from  three weeks to four months and the following stage of reaction and  depression indefinite time in years ⌒ but I never give up and yet look  for nothing to take refuge in. Without last year at Ommen I assure  you I could not have witnessed this corner of the vortex with such  quiet and calm . . .  Of course, I understood very little of this at the time but put together  bits and pieces of adult conversation later. A great part of my diversion  as a child was listening in on adult conversations. We seemed to be  surrounded by people who had intense and often interesting problems  and I very early found out that ifI remained as ?(r)quiet as a mouse' as [  was often told to and never interrupted, my presence was overlooked.  I often overheard much more than anyone intended I should. 
1937年7月30日，星期五下午
亲爱的罗茜，我希望你在床上吃早餐，好好休息，好好休息
还有打网球……我看见了黛博拉两次!太可怕了!我不能肯定她认识我。让怀特医生(黛博拉的丈夫)在一家私立医院为她签字。她不许见任何人，他们甚至不希望她让我进去见她，但当然，我只是不得不…他们说这是一种精神疾病，虽然身体很强壮，但它永远不会痊愈或致死。如果我能和她在一起，我觉得有时会有帮助，但是，正如罗布所说，医生很好，对这个案子和怀特的古怪行为非常感兴趣，这么多年来，她第一次离开了他的家，离开了他的影响。这是希望，她至少可以摆脱他的牵引力…医生说这个阶段会持续三周到四个月，接下来的反应和抑郁阶段会持续几年，但我从未放弃，也没有寻找任何可以避难的地方。如果没有去年在欧曼，我向你保证，我不可能以如此安静和平静的方式见证这个漩涡的角落…当然，当时我对这些知之甚少，但后来我拼凑出了一些成人对话的片段。小时候，我的一大消遣就是偷听大人的谈话。我们周围的人似乎都有一些紧张而有趣的问题，我很早就发现，如果我像别人经常告诉我的那样，像老鼠一样安静，从不打扰，我的存在就会被忽视。我经常无意中听到比任何人都要多的东西。

    At the end of that summer, Krinsh and both my parents and [ prepared  to drive across country in our new Lincoln Zephyr, which they had  bought at factory price for only nine hundred dollars. It was silver- green with two doors, one wide front seat for the three adults and a  small rear seat for me. 
那年夏末，克林什和我的父母准备开着我们的新林肯西风轿车横穿全国，那辆车是他们按出厂价格只花了900美元买的。这辆车是银绿色的，有两扇门，一个宽敞的前座给三个大人坐，一个小的后座给我坐。

    Sara gave us a picnic basket with red and white plastic dishes and cutlery to match, all of such good quality that I still have them. Motels  were just beginning to sprout up around the country, not the luxurious  type of today but sparsely furnished individual bungalows. We always  picnicked on the road for lunch. It being still in the Depression, we  were often joined by a hobo, to whom my mother would offer at least  a hard-boiled egg, cooked on a camping stove in the motel, before setting off each morning. 
萨拉给了我们一个野餐篮，里面有红白相间的塑料盘子和餐具，质量都很好，我现在还留着。汽车旅馆刚刚开始在全国各地涌现，不是今天那种豪华的，而是家具稀疏的独立平房。我们总是在路上野餐吃午饭。在大萧条时期，我们经常和一个流浪汉在一起，每天早上出发前，我母亲至少会给他一个在汽车旅馆的野营炉上煮熟的鸡蛋。


    I cannot imagine how we all survived that trip, cooped up for weeks  in a one and a half seat car. I do not remember it as a happy time but neither do I remember any particular ?(r)scenes'. It was an unusual thing for all of them to be doing. They never took long journeys for the fun of it and perhaps this came close enough to a pleasure trip for them to do their best to behave toward each other as well as they could. 
我无法想象我们是如何熬过那次旅行的，被困在一辆一个半座位的车厢里好几个星期。我不记得那是一段快乐的时光，但我也不记得任何特别的场景。”对他们所有人来说，这是一件不寻常的事情。他们从来没有为了好玩而长途旅行，也许这对他们来说已经足够接近于一次愉快的旅行了，他们尽他们所能地善待彼此。

    It was the first time I was acutely conscious that when others weren't around all three of them at once were too many. Everything was more pleasant when they came in twos. 
这是我第一次强烈地意识到，当其他人不在身边时，他们三个人同时在场就太多了。当他们两个人一起来的时候，一切都变得更愉快了。

    Krinsh wrote a thorough report to Mr Robbie about the trip shortly after we arrived back in Ojai, giving all the technical details about the car, its fuel sumption, powers of acceleration in the mountains,  and the fact that he gave it a daily bath all across the country. He was quite ecstatic about that car. When it was his turn to drive he  took off at alarming speed. Once, that is, that the engine had been perfectly broken in according to a timetable he had established. 
我们回到欧康后不久，克林什就给罗比先生写了一份详尽的旅行报告，详细介绍了汽车的技术细节、耗油量、在山区的加速能力，以及他每天在全国各地给它洗澡的事实。他对那辆车非常着迷。轮到他开车时，他以惊人的速度开走了。有一次，也就是说，发动机按照他制定的时间表完全修好了。

    Krinsh prided himself on having been taught to drive by Miss Dodge and Lady De La Warr's chauffeur in their new Rolls-Royce. 
克林什很自豪自己是道奇小姐和德拉瓦尔夫人的司机教他开新劳斯莱斯的。

    In those days, the Rolls-Royce Company provided a specially trained     chauffeur with the automobile. Krinsh learned a system of driving that  was supposed to save the brakes by always rolling to a slow stop, never riding the clutch, varying the engine speed every ten minutes and above all *?(r)watching out for the other fool'. This sounds sensible when combined with moderate speeds which were essential on English country roads, but it also presupposes a limit on speed with which Krinsh did not bother. There are some people who are thankful to be alive in spite of having ridden with him at the wheel. My mother, on the other hand, prided herself on having driven a car from the age of twelve and a motor-boat before that. Her grandfather was the first man in Buffalo to own an automobile. It was she who taught my father to drive, though it was his bad luck on one of his first lessons in Britain to rear-end a Scotsman and knock off his fuel tank. Both Krinsh and my mother frequently expressed slightly scornful criticism of Raja's driving. 
在那些日子里，劳斯莱斯公司为汽车提供了一名受过专门训练的司机。克林什学会了一套驾驶系统，该系统被认为是通过总是慢停、从不踩离合器、每十分钟改变一次发动机转速来节省刹车，最重要的是“注意其他傻瓜”。当与英国乡村道路上必不可少的中速行驶相结合时，这听起来合情合理，但它也预设了一个速度限制，而克林什对此并不在意。有些人尽管曾与他共乘一段时间，但他们仍然感激自己还活着。另一方面，我的母亲为自己从12岁起就开汽车而自豪，在那之前还开过摩托艇。她的祖父是布法罗第一个拥有汽车的人。是她教我父亲开车的，尽管他在英国的第一堂课上运气不好，撞上了一个苏格兰人的车，撞坏了他的油箱。克林什和我母亲经常对拉贾的驾驶技术表示轻蔑的批评。


    Even my father, however, had fewer accidents and near accidents than  did Krinsh. There was also the problem of car sickness from which my  mother and I suffered. Cutting corners and keeping a steady foot on the  accelerator was essential, which Krinsh did well enough but my father  tended toward jerkiness, abrupt stops and swishing corners. All this  did not lead to a completely harmonious three-thousand-mile drive. 
然而，就连我父亲也比克林什少出事故或险些出事故。还有晕车的问题，我和妈妈都深受其苦。急转弯和稳稳地踩在油门上是必不可少的，克林什在这方面做得很好，但我父亲却倾向于急转弯、急刹车和急转弯。所有这一切并没有导致一次完全和谐的三千英里旅行。

    The sight I found most impressive was the Carlsbad Caverns. Having  been read Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn by Mr Robbie that summer,  caves held for me a graphic interest. Krinsh, on the other hand, was not  the least impressed by the caverns and he wrote to Mr Robbie saying  he greatly preferred Boulder Dam. Perhaps, as he himself suggested,  my adults were just tired the day we saw Carlsbad, for that was  uncharacteristic of Krinsh, who was always extolling the works of  nature over those of man. Perhaps he was impressed by the fact that  an astute guard at the dam sensed among us an important personage.  However unlikely it might be that he knew exactly who Krinsh was,  he gave us an exclusive private tour. For some reason long forgotten  we skipped the Grand Canyon altogether. Of course they had all seen  it before I was born. 
令我印象最深刻的是卡尔斯巴德洞穴。那年夏天，我读了罗比先生的《汤姆・索亚历险记》和《哈克贝利・费恩历险记》，从此对洞穴的图画产生了兴趣。另一方面，克林什对这些洞穴印象深刻，他写信给罗比先生说他非常喜欢博尔德大坝。也许，就像他自己说的，我们见到卡尔斯巴德的那天，我的大人们只是累了，因为这不是克林什的特点，他总是赞美大自然的作品，而不是人类的作品。也许他对一个机敏的堤坝守卫感觉到我们中间有一个重要人物的事实印象深刻。尽管他不太可能确切地知道克林什是谁，但他还是给了我们一次独家的私人参观。由于某种早已被遗忘的原因，我们完全跳过了大峡谷。当然，他们在我出生前就已经看到了。

    Mr Robbie took the trouble to write to me en route. From then on  he wrote me weekly letters whenever we were separated. 
罗比先生不辞辛劳地在路上给我写信。从那以后，只要我们分开，他每周都给我写信。

    Miss Radha Rajagopal, October 21, 1937 
    Hotel Paso del Norte, 
    El Paso, Texas 
    Dear Srog, [Mr Robbie's nickname for me after my mispronunciation of frog] 
    I wonder how the Zeppelin is flying along and whether you have heard any srogs along the wayside saying ?(r)Brek-ek-ek-ek Co-ax Co-ax'. 
    We have been missing you all very much even Pack Wack [his big fat cat] has been asking where his scroggy friend has disappeared, and  the wind says it 1s hardly worth blowing over Sarobia when there are no badminton birds to blow about. 
    [ enclose cards for Krinch and Daddy. 
    Much love from, 
    MR ROBBIE 
Radha Rajagopal小姐，1937年10月21日
北帕索酒店，
德克萨斯州埃尔帕索
亲爱的Srog，[因为我把frog读错了，所以Robbie先生给我起的昵称]
我想知道齐柏林飞艇是如何飞行的，你是否听到过路边的小青蛙在说:“呱――呱――呱――呱――呱”。
我们非常想念你们大家，就连帕克・瓦克(他的大肥猫)也一直在问他那胖乎乎的朋友去哪儿了，风说，如果没有羽毛球鸟可以吹，那就不值得在萨罗比亚上空吹了。
附上给克朗奇和爸爸的卡片。
爱你的，
罗比先生

    We had been invited to visit Frieda Lawrence in Taos, New Mexico.  Frieda had been at Arya Vihara the year before and wrote to Rosalind  Jjust before we started out from Sarobia. 
我们被邀请去拜访新墨西哥州陶斯市的弗里达・劳伦斯。弗里达一年前在艾莉亚维哈拉，就在我们从萨罗比亚出发之前，她给罗莎琳德写了封信。

                     Kiowa Ranch, San Cristobal, N.M. 12 Oct, 37  Dear Rosalind, 
    We are looking forward to your coming, come as soon as you can  because of the weather. You know we are so high and you might  find snow. Tell me if you would all like to meet people or rather  have a rest ⌒ It has been so very lovely, the mountains superb, with aspens turning yellow and the red oak and dark pines.  So we will look for you about the 26th. I won't forget you are  vegetarians.  With kindest regards,  FRIEDA L  (and from me Angelino) 
基奥瓦牧场，圣克里斯托瓦尔，新墨西哥州，37年10月12日
我们期待着你的到来，因为天气不好，你要尽快来。你知道我们在这么高的地方，你可能会发现雪。告诉我你们是想去见人，还是想休息一下?这里的天气非常宜人，群山壮丽，白杨渐渐变黄，红橡树和黑松树随处可见。所以我们会在26号找你。我不会忘记你们是素食主义者。致以最诚挚的问候，弗里达・L(还有我的安杰利诺)

    Anyone who knows Frieda's story will of course recognize Angelino  as her lover at that time and later as her husband; D. H. Lawrence had  died seven years before. 
任何知道弗里达故事的人当然会认出安杰利诺当时是她的情人后来是她的丈夫;d・h・劳伦斯七年前就去世了。

    I was delighted to be in a private house once more after the weeks  in cramped motel rooms, cating food cooked on a camping stove. We  were given a guest cottage and could make our own breakfasts but ate  the other meals with Frieda. She was plump and red-headed and very  warm toward us all and I felt comfortable among the assorted animals,  including a small pig, who came and went freely through the house. I  soon gravitated toward the barn, where I found Angelino milking the  cow. He was a large man who laughed easily, too easily. I disliked him  at once, an unusual reaction in me. I could not understand his remarks  as he leaned his head on the cow's stomach and yanked at her teats,  nor can I remember them now but I felt uncomfortable and retreated  in silence back to my family. 
几个星期以来，我一直住在拥挤的汽车旅馆房间里，吃着用露营炉煮的食物，现在我很高兴能再次住进私人住宅。我们得到了一间客房，可以自己做早餐，但其他的饭和弗里达一起吃。她身材丰满，一头红发，对我们大家都很热情，和各种各样的动物在一起我感到很舒服，包括一头小猪，它在屋子里自由地来来往往。我很快被吸引到谷仓，在那里我发现安杰利诺正在挤牛奶。他身材高大，很容易笑，太容易笑了。我立刻就不喜欢他了，这在我身上是一种不寻常的反应。我听不懂他的话，因为他把头靠在奶牛的肚子上，猛拽奶牛的乳头，我现在也不记得了，但我感到不舒服，默默地回到了家里。

    In a letter to a friend in Europe, Maria Huxley beautifully described  Frieda's household and Taos. The Huxleys, whom we had not yet met,  but would shortly after our return to California, had just left there a  month before we arrived. 
在写给一位欧洲朋友的信中，玛丽亚・赫胥黎漂亮地描述了弗里达的家庭和陶斯。我们还没有见过赫胥黎夫妇，但在我们回到加利福尼亚后不久，他们就会在我们到达前一个月离开那里。

    This place, I mean Taos, 20 miles off and where we never go, is a  nest of scandal and quarrels. Frieda has been, and still is so affectionate  and generous and warm-hearted that I do not want anything to come  back to her which could be misinterpreted . . . the quarrels with  her and Mabel Luhan who wanted to steal Lawrence's ashes from a  childish little chapel Frieda built over them here . . . The desert . . .  begins four miles from us . . . pink on the barren soil, grey with the  sage-brush, bright green in the irrigated oasis and the black cracks  which are the turning banks of the Rio Grande . . . 
这个地方，我指的是陶斯，离这儿20英里远，我们从不去的地方，是丑闻和争吵的温床。弗里达一直是，现在仍然是如此深情、慷慨和热心，我不想让任何可能被误解的事情回到她身边……她和梅布尔・卢汉之间的争吵，梅布尔想从弗里达在他们上面建的一个幼稚的小教堂里偷走劳伦斯的骨灰……沙漠……从离我们四英里的地方开始…在贫瘠的土地上是粉红色的，在鼠尾草上是灰色的，在灌溉的绿洲上是亮绿色的，在格兰德河转弯的河岸上是黑色的裂缝……

    Frieda's life is extraordinary. She lives in such a primitive way that  we can hardly understand it. Angiolino built her a concrete house . . .  and the sitting-room is hung by all Lawrence's pictures. But the heart  of the house is a large kitchen which has only a wooden range which  heats, or rather tepids, a little bath water and which must be lit for  every cup of tea. The easiness might be called messiness, the milk  which comes . . . from a pretty Jersey cow is around in all forms  of creams, and butters, and sour creams, and milks and what not . . there are also the pig-bowl and the cat-bowl and the dog-bowl;  many things to horrify me and shock me; yet she is essentially clean  if you can imagine that; perhaps because she is a blonde. My greatest  horror is to be asked to meals; it 1s then taken for granted that I do the  washing up ⌒ I arrive with my rubber gloves ⌒ but the mess is such  that if there were a heaven [ deserve a bit of it for every washing up  [ do. Meanwhile there she sits, talking of Montaigne or Buddha or  Mabel Dodge [Luhan] . . . 
弗里达的一生是非凡的。她的生活方式如此原始，我们几乎无法理解。安吉里诺给她建了一座混凝土房子……客厅里挂满了劳伦斯的画。但房子的中心是一个大厨房，厨房里只有一个木制灶台，用来加热，或者更确切地说，是加热一点洗澡水，每喝一杯茶都必须点上火。安逸可能被称为混乱，牛奶来了…从一头漂亮的泽西奶牛那里得到了各种各样的奶油，黄油，酸奶油，牛奶等等。还有猪碗、猫碗和狗碗;许多事使我惊恐，使我震惊;但如果你能想象，她本质上是干净的;也许因为她是金发女郎。我最害怕的是有人请我吃饭;人们认为我洗碗是理所当然的，我带着我的橡胶手套到达，但是如果有天堂的话，我每次洗碗都应该得到一点好处。与此同时，她坐在那里，谈论蒙田或佛陀或梅布尔道奇[卢汉]…


    Frieda is continually visited out of the blue by vague friends or  strangers; they want to see Mrs. D. H. Lawrence, and though she  complains she lets them. Then they bring her cakes and think they  have paid her for her trouble.! 
弗丽达经常有不认识的朋友或陌生人突然来访;他们想见d・h・劳伦斯夫人，尽管她抱怨，她还是让他们去了。然后他们给她带蛋糕，认为他们已经为她的麻烦付了钱。

    (The chapel was still there when in 1972 my husband and I and our  children visited the ranch, now run by the University of New Mexico  as a writers' retreat. Lawrence's ashes are in a simple urn inside. Outside,  under a marble slab inscribed with her coat of arms and full German title  of Baroness von Richthofen, lies Frieda.) 
(1972年，我和丈夫以及孩子们参观农场时，教堂还在那里，现在由新墨西哥大学(University of New Mexico)经营，是作家的隐居地。劳伦斯的骨灰在里面一个简单的骨灰盒里。在外面的一块大理石板下，躺着弗里达，上面刻着她的盾形纹章和她的德文全称――冯・里希特霍芬男爵夫人。)

    The affront to Maria's fastidiousness by Frieda's housekeeping would  have been fully shared by the two Brahmin men in her wake if they had  been exposed to it. But Rosalind was adept at establishing, even at the  expense of tact, the standard of cleanliness they would expect. 
弗里达的管家对玛丽亚的挑剔的侮辱，如果让跟在她后面的两个婆罗门男人知道的话，他们会完全分担的。但罗莎琳德善于建立他们所期望的清洁标准，甚至不惜以圆滑为代价。

    That autumn, soon after our return to California, we met Aldous  and Maria Huxley, who were renting a small apartment near my  grandmother's Gower street house. 
那年秋天，在我们回到加州后不久，我们遇到了奥尔道斯・赫胥黎和玛丽亚・赫胥黎夫妇，他们在我祖母在高尔街的房子附近租了一间小公寓。

    Maria, like Sara, immediately saw Rosalind for herself, apart from  her connection with Krishna and Raja, and loved her for herself. She  also fully understood the complications of life with a ?(r)great man'. She  admired Rosalind's skills and practicality and there was soon much  sharing and pooling of their respective abilities. 
玛丽亚和萨拉一样，撇开她与克里希纳和拉贾的关系，立刻把罗莎琳德看成了她自己，并爱她自己。她也完全理解和一个“伟人”在一起生活的复杂性。她钦佩罗莎琳德的技能和实用性，很快，她们就开始分享和汇集各自的能力。

    In spite of her closeness to Sara Rosalind didn't confide in her that most  essential part of her life ⌒ her relationship with Krishna. It is hard,  looking back, to believe that this profound and yet worldly woman  would not have recognized exactly what was going on. Perhaps she  did but was far too sensitive to intrude in an area of Rosalind's life  where she had not been invited. 
尽管罗莎琳德和萨拉很亲近，但她并没有向萨拉吐露她生命中最重要的部分――她和克里希纳的关系。回想起来，很难相信这位深刻而又世故的女人不会意识到发生了什么。也许她是这么想的，但她太敏感了，不敢干涉罗莎琳德没有邀请她的生活领域。

    Sara never failed to take time to write to Rosalind and to stay in  close touch with her. Sometimes she wrote every day. She wrote the  following letter on 11 January 1938 a couple of months after our drive  across America. She had evidently witnessed some incidents while they  were still at Sarobia. 
萨拉总是抽出时间给罗莎琳德写信，并与她保持密切联系。有时她每天都写信。1938年1月11日，在我们驾车穿越美国几个月后，她写下了下面这封信。当他们还在萨罗比亚时，她显然目睹了一些事件。

    I have thought much of your problems as they are or as I imagine  them to be, personally I feel we cannot do more than accept people,  as they are; and let them be themselves ⌒ and no matter how close,  let them find with others what we cannot give them. Every man  needs spoiling by some one, he must think well of himself at any  price. The more he doubts his ability to stand alone, the more he will  protest it. A man, like a woman, does not so much want a fuss made  over them, as much as to feel their wives or husbands do not belittle  them, hurt pride is often at the secret of many otherwise congenial  friendships. Marriage or love as it is known is supposed to give no  cause for such a state, so people look out for this, independence from  it as a sign of weakness in the one and insult to the other ⌒ marriage  be damned as it is expected to be!! It takes a great indifference in  both male and female, as to what other people think to get the  happy companionship that joint interests affords. It's seldom what  the husband thinks of the wife or the wife of the husband that causes  the trouble, but the wonder of the man if he is made to seem small in  the eyes of the world or the wonder of the woman if she is supposed  not able to hold the affections of her husband! Pride or fear of pity or  of censure wrecks many a pleasant enough hand in hand fight through  life. Why a husband and wife feel privileged to tell each other what  they think of each other I do not know: yet it is not a thing that can  be hidden, it is made quite real by words about it yet nothing is as  hopeless as being put into a pigeon hole, and watched as soon as one  tries to sneak out unobserved. I hope Raja has a car of his own, and  can get someone to ride with him who thinks his driving, as well as  everything else he does, is perfect ⌒ This will help a lot. No doubt  it's stupid to get married just as stupid to get unmarried . . . 
我对你的问题的实际情况或我所想象的情况想了很多，就我个人而言，我觉得我们除了接受人的本来面目之外，别无他法;让他们做自己，不管他们和别人有多亲密，让他们找到我们不能给他们的东西。每个人都需要别人的宠爱，不惜任何代价也要自视良好。他越怀疑自己独立的能力，就越会提出抗议。男人和女人一样，不太希望别人对他们大惊小怪，而是希望他们的妻子或丈夫不要轻视他们。在许多其他方面相投的友谊的秘密中，自尊心往往受到伤害。婚姻或爱情，正如人们所知，不应该给这种状态提供任何理由，所以人们注意到这一点，独立于婚姻是一方软弱的标志，是对另一方的侮辱，婚姻就像人们所期望的那样被诅咒!!男人和女人都需要对别人的看法漠不关心，才能得到共同利益所带来的幸福的陪伴。引起麻烦的，很少是丈夫对妻子或丈夫的妻子的看法，而是男人对自己在世人眼中显得渺小的奇怪，或者女人对自己被认为无法留住丈夫的感情的奇怪!骄傲，害怕怜悯，害怕责难，毁掉了许多愉快的携手奋斗的生活。我不知道为什么丈夫和妻子会觉得有特权告诉对方他们对对方的看法，但这不是一件可以隐藏的事情，口头上说得很真实。然而，没有什么比把自己关进鸽子笼里、想偷偷溜出去就被人监视更绝望的了。我希望Raja有一辆自己的车，并且可以找一个认为他的驾驶以及他所做的其他事情都是完美的人和他一起开车，这会有很大的帮助。毫无疑问，结婚是愚蠢的，就像不结婚一样愚蠢。

    Whatever else it may have been that set off this treatise on marriage  from Sara, it is certain that during the few weeks we were all at Sarobia after buying the Zephyr she would have witnessed the criticism of  his driving that Raja suffered from both Rosalind and Krishna. She  obviously recognized that Rosalind and Raja's marriage had difficulties;  both Sara and Robert had had love affairs in the course of their marriage  without destroying that part of their relationship they both most valued companionship and love based on a deep mutual respect. She would  have understood a love affair in another's marriage if it was based on  honest understanding between the two married partners. She would  not have understood hypocrisy.  Sara's troubles with Deborah continued. She had brought her daugh- ter home to Sarobia after eighteen years of estrangement. Although  Deborah's health improved remarkably under her mother's care, irrepa- rable damage had been done to her. In her frequent letters to Rosalind,  Sara expressed her depressed as well as her happier moments. 
不管是什么原因引发了萨拉对婚姻的论述，可以肯定的是，在我们买了西风车后在萨罗比亚的那几个星期里，她目睹了罗萨琳德和克里希纳对拉贾驾驶的批评。她显然意识到罗莎琳德和拉贾的婚姻有困难;萨拉和罗伯特在结婚过程中都有过婚外情，但都没有破坏他们最看重的那部分关系，即基于相互尊重的陪伴和爱。她会理解另一个人的婚姻中的爱情，如果它是基于两个已婚伴侣之间诚实的理解。她不会理解虚伪。萨拉和黛博拉的矛盾还在继续。经过18年的疏远，她把女儿带回了萨罗比亚。虽然在母亲的照顾下，黛博拉的健康有了显著的改善，但她也受到了无法弥补的伤害。在她给罗莎琳德的频繁的信中，萨拉表达了她的沮丧和快乐的时刻。

    Dear Rosie . . . 
    . no doubt happier days have been and may be for me and others,  there is no sense of comparison present, it simply seems enough that  the damp heat of yesterday, broken by a thunderstorm in the evening  has dramatically and marvelously made way for the blissful happy  air of today. New-cut grass, June roses, fragrant honeysuckle fill  the air. 
亲爱的罗茜……
． 毫无疑问，对我和其他人来说，更快乐的日子已经过去，而且可能还会过去，现在没有比较的感觉，似乎只是昨天的湿热，被晚上的雷雨打破，已经戏剧性地、不可思议地让位给今天的幸福快乐的空气。空气中弥漫着新割的草、六月的玫瑰和芬芳的金银花。

    This AM Rob neat and dapper with the kerchief border protruding  just the proper degree from the breast pocket, took himself to lunch  and golf at the country club and I was conscious ofa greater serenity  and happiness than I felt he had before this last trip west. It has left  him happier, freer, something lifted. Perhaps to me it has also done  something but not of the nature my friends and family evidently  would feel themselves or expect me to feel ⌒ when they say ?(r)How  happy you must be to have your daughter with you' but I have  no sense of accomplishment . . . The burden and anxiety of her  immediate danger are, in a way over, but my heart perhaps always  holds too much of the useless refrain. It's ?(r)heavy with the world's . woe', as the Buddha said in some special moment of more  depressmn than happy compassion: if compassion can be happy! Out  of the frying pan into the fire! What frying pan and what fire! who  can say ⌒ but surely some frying pan and some fire. It needs must be  so, until we are enlightened and out of bondage to illusion and love  of power. How much of a . . . revelation this lasting assurance of  the blissful state may be; how much a weary plodding through life  and death, how much a clearing of the atmosphere created by the two great beasts of mind and body that the inner man may make a  clear free get away, I do not know. Surely the rose seems to have no  battle with illusion to attain its fullness. As we are nature's products  only to this point and here the real self-conscious hassle begins; to  what indeed can we look for help . . . the warmth of the sun is a  factor in the opening of the rose, perhaps Krishnaji could if I did not  create my own shade aid me . . . In short how, ere it is too late for  this body are we to handle our rudders so the ship rides free with the  wind? A mere man may teach me to steer a boat, no one may teach me  to handle the vessel of myself. Deborah has a headache and is, I hope,  asleep. At times I am overcome by her clear thinking and dynamic  energy. I am so glad you feel drawn to her. She is most balanced and  happy by nature. It seems we are to constantly be reminded that action  comes from some sort of illusion; things, even tragedies, heartbreaks,  narrow escape from being murdered or worse still from murdering,  looked at in the light of an old familiar lamp or under a tree of our  youthful days with one we love, all suddenly is as if it had not been and we wonder that such days of strife were of such import at  the time. Yesterday as Deborah put on a hat she had got 18 years  ago, she recalled the feel of its soft velvet that she had felt the day  she wore it first. ?(r)Mother how is it, he might have killed me! There  was a moment [ would have gladly killed him, yet the touch of this  velvet and all is suddenly as if it had not been and life is back where  it was 18 years ago.' 
这个整洁、衣冠楚楚的罗布，头巾的边沿刚好从胸前的口袋里伸出来，他去乡村俱乐部吃午饭，打高尔夫球，我意识到他比上次去西部旅行前更平静、更快乐。这让他更快乐，更自由，更有成就感。也许对我来说，它也做了一些事情，但不是我的朋友和家人显然会感觉到他们自己或期望我感觉到的，当他们说:(r)你一定很高兴有你的女儿和你在一起，但我没有成就感…从某种程度上说，她那迫在眉睫的危险所带来的负担和焦虑已经过去了，但我的心也许总是有太多无用的重复。它是沉重的世界。悲哀”，正如佛陀在某些特殊的时刻所说的沮丧多于快乐的慈悲:如果慈悲可以快乐!刚出油锅，又入火坑!什么样的煎锅，什么样的火!谁能说，但肯定有煎锅和火。它必须如此，直到我们开悟，摆脱幻觉和权力之爱的束缚。多少…这种幸福状态的持久保证可能是启示;我不知道有多少人在生与死中疲惫地跋涉，有多少人的心灵和身体这两只巨兽创造了一种清新的气氛，使人的内心得到了明确的解脱。毫无疑问，玫瑰似乎没有与幻想作过斗争，就获得了丰满。因为我们只是自然的产物，在这一点上，真正的自我意识的麻烦开始了;我们究竟可以寻求什么帮助……太阳的温暖是玫瑰开放的一个因素，也许克里希那吉可以，如果我不创造我自己的阴影帮助我…总而言之，在这具躯体还来得及之前我们该如何操纵舵让船乘风而行呢?别人可以教我如何掌舵，却没有人可以教我如何驾驭自己的船。黛博拉头痛，我希望她睡着了。有时我被她清晰的思维和活力所征服。我很高兴你被她吸引了。她天性平和快乐。似乎要不断地提醒我们，行动来自某种幻觉;在一盏熟悉的旧灯的照耀下，或者在我们年轻时与我们所爱的人在一起的树下，所有的事情，甚至是悲剧、心碎、死里逃生，甚至更糟糕的是死里逃生，突然之间都仿佛没有发生过。我们奇怪，这样的冲突日子在当时怎么会如此重要。昨天，黛博拉戴上了一顶18年前买的帽子，她回忆起第一次戴上这顶帽子时柔软的天鹅绒的感觉。妈妈，怎么回事，他可能会杀了我!有那么一刻，我很想杀了他，但触摸到这块天鹅绒，一切都突然变得好像没有发生过，生活又回到了18年前的样子。”

    Right or wrong I assured; life is indeed dangerous, perhaps our  consciousness needs must know the dangers that our own latent  fears and impulses create. They lie near the surface and so we learn  wisdom and compassion, caution and the equality of our likeness to  those about us . . . It is all intensely, momentarily interesting if we  can be keen to our reactions. 
我确信是对是错;生活确实是危险的，也许我们的意识需要知道我们自己潜在的恐惧和冲动所造成的危险。它们就在我们的表面，因此我们学会了智慧、同情、谨慎和我们与周围人的相似之处的平等……如果我们能敏锐地观察自己的反应，这一切都是强烈而短暂的有趣。

    In this last year of her life Sara's letters indicate that she suffered often  from depressing thoughts. World events in that year were giving cause  for depression as many of those Americans travelling abroad were to  find. Sara wrote her feelings to Rosalind on 19 June 1938 about a friend's  report from Europe just before she herself was to leave for the Ommen  camp with Deborah: 
在她生命的最后一年里，萨拉的信件表明她经常受到压抑思想的折磨。正如许多出国旅行的美国人所发现的那样，那一年的世界事件给了人们抑郁的理由。1938年6月19日，萨拉在和黛博拉一起前往欧曼集中营之前，给罗莎琳德写了她对一个朋友从欧洲发来的报告的感受:

    when people get to the sailing port . . . one doctor to every 8000  people . . . no money to just sit by till their turn ⌒ the hope of  leaving. The fear of not getting away and hunger besides. A few  men so cruel to so many, and the whole world helpless to help. It's  too much to contemplate. It makes one really ill and heartsick. Yet  history repeats itself and will ever do so . . . What is to become  of the world and its poor stupid and horror loving people as well.  There can be no end to it all. 
当人们到达帆船码头时……每8000人中有一名医生……没有钱可以坐等轮到他们时再离开。害怕走不开，还有饥饿。几个人对这么多人这么残忍，整个世界都无能为力。这太多了，难以考虑。它让人感到恶心和心痛。然而，历史会重演，而且将永远如此……这个世界将会变成什么样子，以及它可怜的、愚蠢的、热爱恐怖的人们。这一切是没有尽头的。

    On 3 August 1938, Sara began a sixty-page diary letter for Rosalind,  who would not be at the Ommen Camp that year; this would be the last  camp ever held there. Sara's diary is quoted in part here as it gives a vivid  account of the effect of Krishna's talks on one perceptive individual,  struggling with intense personal problems, while adjusting to and trying  to help a daughter who had been lost to her for cighteen years. Sara was  neither a devotee nor a sentimentalist. She found much personal help in  Krishna's words and recognized that what Krishna gave to his audience  often went beyond words. He transmitted a highly charged energy that  could awaken within the individual a capacity to confront the depths of  his being. Not everyone responded to this force. Some feltit, then turned  it back into an adulation of Krishna rather than applying it to themselves.  Some complained that he offered neither method nor guidance, leaving them to struggle alone. ?°Those', he would say, ?(r)completely missed the  point.?± Krishna seems to have struck a chord that was already well-tuned  in Sara. She listened to him in her own independent way. 
1938年8月3日，萨拉开始给罗莎琳德写一封60页的日记信，罗莎琳德那年不在奥门集中营;这将是在那里举行的最后一次营地。萨拉的日记在这里被部分引用，因为它生动地描述了克里希纳的谈话对一个敏锐的人的影响，她与强烈的个人问题作斗争，同时适应并试图帮助失去了18年的女儿。萨拉既不是虔诚的信徒，也不是多愁善感的人。她在奎师那的话语中发现了许多个人的帮助，并认识到奎师那给他的听众的东西往往是超越语言的。他传递了一种高度带电的能量，这种能量可以唤醒个人面对自己存在深处的能力。并不是每个人都对这股力量做出了回应。有些人感觉到了，然后把它变成了对奎师那的赞美，而不是把它应用到自己身上。一些人抱怨说，他既没有提供方法，也没有提供指导，让他们独自奋斗。“那些”，他会说，“完全没有抓住要点。”克里希纳似乎在《萨拉》中拨动了已经调得很好的和弦。她以自己独立的方式听他说话。

    Aug. 4 
    K. opened his talk without preliminaries saying words were futile  ⌒ and through them it was difficult to understand another. He or  we could not meet in a friendly basis if we looked upon him as a  teacher and he could not meet or understand those here with isms  or propaganda to expound . . . It would be a waste of his time to  discuss these things ⌒ please leave all our propaganda and problems  behind. Few are living wholly in their great and burning desire to  live or act after their own manner and fullness. We must find out  what we really are and live it in action. To find this out we must  catch ourselves in the act with intelligent choiceless awareness . . .  He spoke of the necessity of great love of morality ⌒  ... I feel tired, and as if since 1934 there was nothing to be done  about anything. From then on though anxious about Deborah, felt  it was Rob's job to carry on, since for me it seems fiished which  is absurd. Nothing is ever finished . . . but as if this life and birth  were done; and held for me in this body no more interest and no  desire for rebirth. Perhaps ifI felt I could get over with this wheel here and now I might find renewed effort possible ⌒ but my only  hope of any degree of enlightenment must now come not through  action, but through giving up ⌒ utterly and completely ⌒ but this  seems as 1if it must come from some sort of frustration of which I  am not aware or hardly conscious ⌒ which at my age and after 10  years of studying Krishnaji's books as well as himself and my own  reactions a rather futile 10 years of introspection, certainly for me,  the more the mind and intellect and desire for knowledge enter into  it all the more stranded I become and farther from that deeper inner  happiness of unobstructed flow of life. Deborah and I were recalling  together K's talk. It seemed to mean more to her than to me. She is  more attentive to words, more literal ⌒ she says perhaps I am looking  at too many angles and depths and degrees of meaning as he talks and  so miss much of what he is saying which was interesting in the light  of Amma [Mrs. Besant| saying she questions instead of listening, and  then questioning. 
8月4日
K.一开始就毫无准备地说，语言是无用的，通过它们很难理解别人。如果我们把他看作一个老师，他或我们就不可能在友好的基础上见面，他也不可能在这里遇到或理解那些有主义或宣传要阐述的人……讨论这些事情是浪费他的时间，请把我们所有的宣传和问题都抛在脑后。很少有人完全按照自己的方式和充实的方式生活或行动，这是他们强烈而强烈的愿望。我们必须找出我们真正是谁，并在行动中活出来。为了找到这个答案，我们必须在行动中抓住自己，带着明智的、无选择的意识……他谈到了热爱道德的必要性。我觉得很累，好像从1934年起就没有什么可做的了。从那时起，虽然担心黛博拉，但我觉得罗布的工作是继续下去，因为对我来说，这似乎已经完成了，这是荒谬的。没有什么是完成的……但仿佛这生命和出生已经结束;在这具躯体里，我对重生不再有兴趣和渴望。也许如果觉得可以克服这个轮子现在我可能会发现新的努力可能⌒但我唯一希望的任何程度的启蒙现在必须通过行动,不是,而是通过放弃⌒完全⌒但这似乎1如果它必须来自某种挫折的我不了解或几乎没有有意识的⌒在我的年龄,经过十年的研究Krishnaji的书籍以及自己和自己的反应,而徒劳的十年的反省,当然，对我来说，思想、理智和求知欲越深入其中，我就越陷入困境，离生命之流畅通无阻的内心深处的幸福越远。黛博拉和我一起回忆K的谈话。这对她来说似乎比对我更重要。她更注意用词，更注重字面意思，她说，也许我在他说话的时候看了太多的角度、深度和程度，所以错过了他所说的很多有趣的东西，因为Amma[贝赞特夫人]说她问而不是听，然后问。

    To Deborah K's reference to lying fallow was an inspiration, that it  was good and necessary. To me plowing, sowing, reaping and lying  fallow were all a weary process with nothing of the spirit. She thought  [ argued myself into pessimism which she felt was really foreign to me  ... I do not know. Glad at least to see she lives fully in the minute. 
德博拉・K提到休耕是一种激励，这是好的，也是必要的。对我来说，犁地、播种、收割和休耕都是一件令人疲惫的事，毫无精神可言。她认为[说服我悲观]，她觉得这对我来说真的很陌生。我不知道。很高兴至少看到她活得很充实。

    Frid. Aug 5  Met Rajagopal. He 1s anxious for fear Deborah will get involved in  some unfortunate acquaintance and situation. He is very wise ⌒ she  certainly seems anxious to make contacts why I do not know and  surprisingly interested in people's names and getting them placed in  some way in connection with us. Several things often make me feel  she is still W's [Dr White, Deborah's ex-husband] agent in some way but this is her, not my affair. Raja said he was trying to save me any  more unhappy situations through her and I should keep an eye on her  but I really cannot though am only too glad to be with her . . . Raja is  so often right I am glad of his warning of not too much freedom for her  here where he feels there are many undesirable ?(r)pick-up' possibilities  for her. It would be only too natural if she should in her happiness at  being free from White want to go on some bat or have some burst  of self-assurance and self expression with those about her.  Aug 6th  Last night I thought much about my selfishness, in being so much  alone ⌒ the petty annoyances of the constant ?(r)excuse me's' ?(r)thank  you's'; tried to discover why the habit of being alone should result in a sort of frustration . . . Finally after a refreshing nap to find myself  much happier, freer and willing to have no time to myself at all. This  is something. Now I must understand why it is that having someone  stand over one, gesticulating, dynamic, repeating again and again the  same thought, explanation, narrative about things or people one is not  interested in, makes me embarrassed and nervous. I shall call on my  affection and realize | should be or am interested in what interests  her. Its all great fun and I am really so happy to have her here with  me, and she so dear, and grateful for all that life brings her. It is  good for me to learn from her and how another's mind works. I  find mine stops! I am impatient of ways to ends when perhaps only  the ways really matter. 

Frid。我是Rajagopal。他担心黛博拉会卷入一些不幸的熟人和情况。他很聪明，她似乎很想和我联系，为什么我不知道，她对别人的名字很感兴趣，并把他们和我们联系起来。有几件事经常让我觉得她在某种程度上仍然是W的经纪人，但这是她，不是我的外遇。拉贾说他试图通过她来拯救我，让我不再陷入不幸的境地，我应该照看好她，但我真的不能，尽管我很高兴能和她在一起…拉贾经常是对的，我很高兴他警告她不要给她太多的自由，因为他觉得她有很多不受欢迎的可能性。如果她因为摆脱了怀特的束缚而感到高兴，想和周围的人一起出去玩，或者迸发出一些自信和自我表达，那就太自然了。8月6日昨晚，我想了很多关于我的自私，在这么孤独的时候，经常有琐碎的烦恼?(r)对不起，“(r)谢谢你”;试图发现为什么独处的习惯会导致一种挫败感…最后，在一个提神醒脑的小睡之后，我发现自己更快乐，更自由，更愿意没有自己的时间。这很了不起。现在我必须明白，为什么有人站在我旁边，手舞足蹈，动手动脚，一遍又一遍地重复同样的想法，解释，叙述我不感兴趣的事情或人，会让我感到尴尬和紧张。我会呼唤我的爱人，意识到我应该或我对她感兴趣的东西感兴趣。这一切都很有趣，我真的很高兴她和我在一起，她是如此亲爱的，感激生活带给她的一切。对我来说，从她身上学习别人的想法是有好处的。我找到我的停靠点了!我对达到目的的方式感到不耐烦，也许只有方式才是真正重要的。

    This A. M. Krishnaji spoke so wonderfully, so clearly and it  seemed to me for the first time hopefully of our ultimate fulfillment  of happiness and reality. He spoke of nationalism and internationalism  and asked us to think upon it deeply ⌒ our unfriendliness in camp over  national, political, financial or social barriers. 
克里希那吉先生讲得如此精彩，如此清晰，我第一次感到我们对幸福和现实的最终实现充满希望。他谈到了民族主义和国际主义，并要求我们深刻思考我们在国家、政治、经济或社会障碍上的不友好。

    ?(r)We may all, you and I, all be bombarded and killed. So the  burning question is political and national. What are we going to  do about it? Nationalism results from a habit, a prejudice, from  egotism, or belief, in God being on our side. This has been led up  to by the habit in meditation. Those who meditate rely on a habit to  get them somewhere ⌒ a habit is stagnation, will never lead to truth.  If you meditate find out why you meditate. Those who do not had  also better find out why they don't. I do not say I am for or against  meditation . . . 
(r)我们大家，你和我，都可能遭到轰炸和杀害。因此，当务之急是政治和国家层面的问题。我们该怎么办呢?民族主义源于一种习惯、一种偏见、一种自我中心主义或一种相信上帝站在我们这一边的信念。这是由冥想的习惯导致的。那些冥想的人依靠一种习惯把他们带到某个地方，一种习惯是停滞不前的，永远不会引向真理。如果你冥想，找出你冥想的原因。那些不这样做的人也最好找出他们不这样做的原因。我并不是说我支持或反对冥想…

    I would suggest that for the next twenty-four hours those who  were in the habit of meditating give it up for just that time. To think  these problems over, not to gossip to visit but to alone think, deeply after the conflict, the struggle, in the following calm might come  the miracle fulfillment, not to look for it or expect it, but it lay if at  all in the silence after the struggle.'  Yesterday then, he meant as Deborah thought ⌒ It might come  only in the lying fallow after the tilling. I went too far in the idea,  feeling discouraged that after the lying fallow there was again only  the poor farmer preparing for his next job. 
我建议，在接下来的24小时里，那些有冥想习惯的人就在这段时间里放弃冥想。仔细思考这些问题，不要去闲聊，去拜访，而是独自思考，在冲突和斗争之后，在接下来的平静中，奇迹可能会实现，不要去寻找它，也不要期待它，它就在斗争之后的寂静中。”昨天，他的意思和黛博拉所想的一样，它可能只会在耕种后的休耕中出现。我把这个想法想得太过分了，在休耕之后，又只有贫穷的农民在为下一份工作做准备，这让我感到沮丧。

    So I am left as one who does not meditate. Deborah thought it  might imply it would be good for those who did not, to try ⌒ I  am not sure of this . . . [ had meditated and repeated mantrams and  taken part in vocal incantations, and the result was a power, as of  another using me ⌒ my voice was resonant, full of assurance, the power was strong though not ungentle like a prayer answered and it  made me feel perhaps that I was to use it for something and I wished  to do nothing with it, not to be a leader, a power in the E.S. service  through which it came . . . I did not believe in rituals, people got  foolish ⌒ sanctimonious about them . . . I had asked for power and  it had come. It was wonderful but it alarmed me so I had given up  meditation but not quiet thought; concentration; which I think more  safe, intelligent and not, a retreat, or what K. might call an escape. 

所以我就成了一个不打坐的人。黛博拉认为这可能意味着这对那些没有尝试的人有好处，我不确定这个…(冥想,就重复咒语和参加声乐咒语、和结果是权力,另一个使用我⌒声音共振,保证,电力强劲虽然不是ungentle像祈祷回答让我觉得或许我使用它的东西,我想什么都不做,不是一个领导者,在静电的服务通过它来。我不相信仪式，人们变得愚蠢而伪善…我要求的是权力，它来了。这是一种奇妙的感觉，但也使我感到害怕，所以我放弃了沉思，但没有安静地思考;浓度;我认为这更安全，更明智，而不是撤退，或者k所说的逃跑。

    What was extraordinary about Sara is that, having felt this ?(r)power',  she preferred to relinquish 1it, unlike so many who would use such an  experience to promote their own spiritual importance. 
萨拉的非凡之处在于，在感受到这种“力量”之后，她宁愿放弃这种力量，而不像许多人那样利用这种经历来提升自己在精神上的重要性。

    Aug 10  Deborah seems to be making friends with many people, she seems  quieter, less jerky and dynamic, if not happier ⌒ more thoughtful. 
    Today K said one must be ?(r)as spontaneous in fear, as in love'.  In an earthquake or a calamity when there is no escape something  surely happens ⌒ only the real is left to us. 
8月10日，黛博拉似乎和很多人交了朋友，她看起来更安静，不那么暴躁，充满活力，如果不是更快乐，也更有思想。
今天K说，一个人在恐惧中必须像在爱中一样自然。在地震或灾难中，当无法逃脱时，肯定会发生一些事情，只有真实的留给我们。

    I feel that what K is talking about is much simpler than all this  discussion, but suppose I am not simple enough . . . | sometimes  feel this awareness is like sorting buttons or carding wool. It takes  constant diligence . . . K thinks to keep notes . . . or to write to  friends is to keep one's self in one's own ideas and nitches ⌒ certainly  it often is to seem wiser than we are or to want to share, or show off  but about the notes I write am not yet sure if they hurt or help so  will have to think that out ⌒ am sure I shall never re-read them so  perhaps its a waste of time to write. By putting reactions down he  may feel we crystalize them and refer to them when we once having  eliminated something need surely not go back to it. I notice when he  writes a letter or poem he does not make many comparisons ⌒ just  the bird singing. 
我觉得K所谈论的要比所有这些讨论简单得多，但假设我还不够简单…有时觉得这种意识就像整理纽扣或梳理羊毛。这需要不断的努力……K想记笔记…或者写信给朋友是为了保持自己的想法，当然，这通常看起来比我们更聪明，或者想要分享，或者炫耀，但是关于我写的笔记，我还不确定它们是有害的还是有益的，所以我必须考虑一下，我肯定我永远不会重读它们，所以也许这是浪费时间。通过把反应写下来，他可能会觉得我们把它们结晶了，当我们一旦消除了某些东西，就肯定不需要再回到它身上时，就会提到它们。我注意到当他写信或写诗的时候，他没有做太多的比较，只做了鸟的歌唱。

    Aug 12  I feel deeply happy like the silent currents at the bottom of the sea  and if my mind and attention is drawn to the surface I do not leave  my depths but bring it to the surface as things happen. I cannot solve problems but when alone am happy with the flow or stillness  about me in which one loses ones self without desire to do so. It is  indeed spontaneous and soon as I find my mind trying to analyze it  it goes . . . 
8月12日，我感到深深的快乐，就像海底寂静的水流，如果我的思想和注意力被吸引到水面上，我不会离开我的深处，而是随着事情的发生而把它带到水面上。我不能解决问题，但当我独自一人的时候，我对我周围的流动或静止感到高兴，在这种情况下，我失去了自我，而不希望这样做。它确实是自发的，当我发现我的头脑试图分析它时，它就去了…


    I can see that all this writing i1s indeed quite useless, a waste of  time, for to put on paper what one gets out of camp is not a help  or the real thing. 
我可以看出，所有这些写作确实是毫无用处的，是浪费时间，因为把从营地里得到的东西写在纸上，既没有帮助，也没有真实的东西。

    I met K at the mechanic shop where he had his tire pumped up.  He looked a bit worried or anxious or tired, asked him if he was tired  he said no and it occurred to me there might be many people he had  tried to help and certainly did not ⌒ some a little but none enough  and among them Rosie [Rosalind] I thought and I have been anxious  for her health for a long time. In 1936 would not say what the trouble  was which made me feel it was really serious with her and I felt at  QOjai K. tried to keep her quiet, unexcited, not overtired, early to  bed, so did not go to play chess in P.M. as she wanted to do for  fear it would keep her up and create a sense of competition which I  do not care about if it ever comes to that. Lay awake a long time last  night wondering if D. [Deborah] and I could join Rosie at Ojai and  Radha ⌒ keep house, D. could cook until Raja came in late October  to be with her. He tells me she wants an operation for something some pain. But I do not think it the appendix as he intimated. It  comes too quick and severe to be put off till he arrives as he said he  wrote her to do . . .  When she was in Ojai in the spring of 1936, Sara had evidently noticed  Rosalind's condition. She did not know the cause, but Krishna, who did  know, might well have been wondering here at Ommen, two years later,  if Rosalind was again pregnant or had suffered another miscarriage. ?(r)K.  paid us a visit. Felt there was something he wanted to talk about -felt anxious about Rosie but asked him nothing about her . . .'  At the end of Camp Sara expressed her wish to come to Rosalind if  she were having an operation. 
我在给轮胎打气的机修厂遇到了K。他看起来有点担心、焦虑或疲惫，我问他是否累了，他说不累，我突然想到，他可能试图帮助很多人，但肯定没有帮助，有些人做得很少，但远远不够，其中包括罗茜(罗莎琳德)，我一直担心她的健康很长时间。在1936年，我不会说麻烦是什么，这让我觉得她真的很严重，我觉得在QOjai K.试着让她安静，不兴奋，不过度疲劳，早睡，所以没有在下午去下棋，因为她想这样做，担心这会让她保持清醒，创造一种竞争的感觉，我不在乎，如果有一天到了那一天。昨晚我躺在床上久久不能入睡，想着我和D. [Deborah]能否和Rosie一起去Ojai餐厅，而Radha则负责料理家务，D.能否做饭，直到Raja十月底回来和她在一起。他告诉我她想做个手术治疗疼痛。但我不认为那是他所说的阑尾。它来得太快太严重了，不能推迟到他来，因为他说他写信让她去做……1936年春天，当萨拉在奥康的时候，她显然已经注意到了罗莎琳德的病情。她不知道原因，但克里希纳知道，两年后，他很可能在欧曼这里想知道罗莎琳德是否又怀孕了，或者又流产了。K ? (r)。拜访了我们。觉得有什么事他想和他谈谈――我为罗茜感到焦虑，但没有问他关于她的事情……”在夏令营结束时，萨拉表示，如果罗莎琳德要做手术，她希望能来看望她。


    August 22nd, 1938  Dear Rosie,  . . . Rajagopal told me you were contemplating an operation for 
    the appendix or something and he had written you if possible to  wait for his arrival in L.A. . . . will you really truly let me know  dear Rosie if there is any way or place that Deborah and I could  help you or be with you to give you a real rest and look after you  a bit, so you can get built up before the operation. We know you  enjoy being with us both. This is not the question. The question  1s if we can be of use before or after Raja arrives. Our idea was we  might help with Radha or your mother. Do not want to bother or complicate anything . . . let me know if I can help personally or a  bit financially . . .  Always lovingly,  SARA 
1938年8月22日亲爱的罗茜:拉贾戈帕尔告诉我你在考虑一个手术
阑尾之类的东西，如果可能的话，他写信给你，让你等他到洛杉矶. . . .亲爱的罗茜，你真的能告诉我有什么方法或地方可以让我和黛博拉帮助你，或者陪在你身边让你好好休息，照顾你，这样你就能在手术前恢复健康。我们知道你喜欢和我们在一起。这不是问题所在。问题是我们能在拉贾到来之前还是之后派上用场。我们的想法是帮助拉达或你母亲。不想麻烦或使任何事情复杂化…让我知道如果我能帮助个人或一点经济上…一直都很亲切，SARA

    Whatever had been the matter with Rosalind was set straight by the  time Raja returned and no more was said about an operation. Sara did  not come to California that autumn. On 13 October 1938 from Sarobia,  she wrote her last letter to Rosalind. 
拉贾回来的时候，罗莎琳德的问题已经解决了，再也没有说什么手术的事了。那年秋天萨拉没有来加州。1938年10月13日，她从萨罗比亚给罗莎琳德写了最后一封信。

    this afternoon I picked a few leaves, glowing in mild golden stillness  of an embracing sun and sent them to you. By the time they reach  you they will be dry and wrinkled. They are only a forerunner of the  promise of the fall. The camp meant much to me. It was a stirring  one. At one time in Ojai I was impatient of it all and tried to forget  it. I think now my state of health was at bottom of that spell. You  were dear and asked me to come while you and K. read, and to share  his thoughts with me, and I would have none of it. Impatience got in  my way of enjoyment and gentle questioning ⌒ what queer creatures  we are and how hard to know ourselves. One learns to value these  unhappy feelings and long after an impulsive something has cropped  up and it is recalled suddenly out of a clear sky and one says, now  [ know, this shows me what was back of that day. 
今天下午，我摘了几片叶子，在柔和的金色宁静的阳光下闪闪发光，送给你。当它们到达你手中的时候，它们已经又干又皱了。他们只是堕落应许的前奏。营地对我来说意义重大。这是一个激动人心的时刻。有一段时间，在欧康，我对这一切都很不耐烦，试图忘记它。我想现在我的健康状况处于那个咒语的最低点。你是亲爱的，要我在你和k读书的时候过来，把他的想法告诉我，可是我不同意。急躁妨碍了我的享受，并温和地质疑我们是多么奇怪的生物，了解自己是多么困难。一个人学会珍惜这些不愉快的感觉，在冲动的事情发生很久之后，它突然从晴朗的天空中被回忆起来，一个人说，现在我知道了，这向我展示了那天的过去。

    I am glad you are feeling better. It will not be long as time goes  till we are all together again.  Goodnight,  SARA 
我很高兴你感觉好些了。过不了多久我们就会再次相聚。晚安,莎拉

    Sara died six weeks later. Rosalind felt she had not fully appreciated  her friendship with Sara until after her death. She had not expected this  loss to be such a blow to her. They had shared so many attitudes and  so many interests; building, puzzles, chess, painting. It was only when  Sara was gone that Rosalind realized what a tremendous support this  deeply affectionate friendship had been. 
    From then on Robert took up a correspondence with Rosalind which  was very regular on his part, though not so on Rosalind's, who always  considered herself a poor letter writer. 
六周后萨拉去世了。罗莎琳德觉得，直到萨拉去世后，她才完全珍惜与萨拉的友谊。她没有想到这次损失会对她造成如此大的打击。他们有很多共同的态度和兴趣;建筑，拼图，象棋，绘画。直到萨拉走后，罗莎琳德才意识到这段深情的友谊给了她多大的支持。
从那时起，罗伯特开始和罗莎琳德定期通信，虽然罗莎琳德并不这么认为，她一直认为自己不善于写信。

    Dec 8, 1938  Darling Rosalind,  Your very dear and understanding letter touched me very deeply.  know how dearly you loved Sara. 
    I too felt as you did about her pulling through because she had  pulled through several times before but her heart was weak and  gave out. 
    I am quite sure that although she fought gamely to the end her  ego had really decided to go on, feeling that when she got Deborah  back she had paid off a karmic debt and was free to escape into a  larger and truer world and be free of the irksome limitation of her  troublesome body. 
    Deborah was perfectly splendid through the ordeal and the funeral  but I am very sorry to tell you the bad news that the strain was too  great and she has broken down and is in a nearby hospital after trying  to kill herself. 
    Faithfully,  ROBERT 
1938年12月8日亲爱的罗莎琳德:你那封亲切而善解人意的信深深地打动了我。我知道你有多爱莎拉
我也和你一样觉得她挺过来了，因为她以前也挺过来过几次，但她的心脏很虚弱，最后不行了。
我很确定，虽然她勇敢地战斗到最后，但她的自我真的决定继续下去，觉得当她把黛博拉救回来时，她已经还清了业力债务，可以自由地逃到一个更大、更真实的世界，摆脱了她那麻烦的身体的令人讨厌的限制。
黛博拉在这场磨难和葬礼上表现得非常出色，但我很遗憾地告诉你一个坏消息，那就是压力太大了，她已经崩溃了，在试图自杀后住在附近的一家医院。
忠实,罗伯特

    I too felt Sara's loss deeply. After she was gone Mr Robbie no longer  seemed the formidable person to me that he once had been. He was the  only person I knew who liked the Sunday comics and when he was in  Ojai, I would head up to Saro Vihara right after breakfast on Sunday  mornings and spend an hour or two absorbed in two sets of comics.  They weren't available at Arya Vihara because, out of frugality, we  didn't get a paper at all. Anyway the comics were frowned on for  me, but Mr Robbie never gave me away. I think, intellectual though  he was, he believed they represented an important sector of American  culture as did the radio programmes ?(r)Hopalong Cassidy', the ?(r)Lone  Ranger' and ?(r)Charlie McCarthy'. 
我也深深感受到莎拉的损失。她走后，罗比先生在我看来已不再像从前那样令人敬畏了。他是我认识的人中唯一一个喜欢周日漫画的人，当他在奥康的时候，我会在周日早上吃完早餐后去萨罗维哈拉，花一两个小时全神贯注地看两套漫画。在Arya Vihara没有，因为出于节俭，我们根本没有纸。不管怎么说，我不喜欢那些漫画，但罗比先生从来没有出卖过我。我想，尽管他是一个知识分子，但他认为它们代表了美国文化的一个重要部分，就像广播节目“霍帕隆・卡西迪”、“独行侠”和“查理・麦卡锡”一样。

    If he was stern with me for mistreating an animal he could be just as  stern with my mother for mispronouncing a word, or eating peanuts  in the cat or singing a song like ?(r)Mama's little baby likes shortnin'  shortnin'', which he could then never get out of his head. 
如果他因为我虐待动物而严厉地对待我，他也会因为我妈妈念错了一个词，或者在猫里吃花生，或者唱一首像“妈妈的小宝贝喜欢short - tnin' short - tnin”这样的歌而严厉地对待我妈妈。

    But he could write letters straight to a child's heart, mostly about  his or our animals. Once Sara was gone he retreated more and more  into this world of animals and he welcomed those who could share it  with him. He remained actively involved with the Anti-Vivisection  Society, various human rights and animal welfare groups, and the many  individuals whom he never turned away in their need. 
但他可以写信直接打动孩子的心，主要是关于他的或我们的动物。萨拉一走，他就越来越退回到这个动物的世界里，他欢迎那些能和他一起分享这个世界的人。他仍然积极参与反活体解剖协会，各种人权和动物福利组织，以及许多他从不拒绝的人。

    The autumn, shortly before Sara's death, Blanche Matthias had invited  us to a dinner she was giving in the Town House Hotel in Los Angeles  for the famous Indian dancer Udai Shankar. The dinner followed his  performance and the dessert, a sculptured palace in different flavours of exotic ice-cream, regrettably made much more of an impression on  me than the dancer; even though the ice-cream never thawed enough  for us to eat it. 
那年秋天，莎拉去世前不久，布兰奇・马蒂亚斯邀请我们参加她在洛杉矶的镇屋酒店为印度著名舞蹈家乌代・尚卡尔举办的晚宴。在他的表演之后，晚宴就开始了。令人遗憾的是，甜点――一座用不同口味的异国冰激凌雕刻而成的宫殿――给我留下的印象要比舞者多得多。尽管冰淇淋还没融化到我们能吃的程度。

    A few weeks after this memorable evening, Rosalind wrote: 
    Dec 12, 1938 
    Dear Blanche, 
    It was so nice to have your letter and thank you also for the enclosed letter from Shankar. It was a great shock to hear from Mr Logan that Mrs Logan has  passed away. You know how fond we were of each other and her passing leaves me with a great sense of loss. I did not know I felt so deeply for her and I was unprepared for anything like this to happen to her . .. 
    When next I see you I want very much to discuss with you about taking Radha to Shankar's new school. Raja is never very keen about my taking Radha and living in India as he says the climate is so bad but I want to very much. 

在这个难忘的夜晚过后的几个星期，罗莎琳德写道:
1938年12月12日
亲爱的布兰奇,
很高兴收到你的来信，也感谢你附上的尚卡尔的来信。听到洛根先生说洛根夫人去世了，我很震惊。你知道我们是多么相爱，她的去世让我感到非常失落。我不知道我对她有这么深的感情，我对这样的事情发生在她身上毫无准备。
下次见到你时，我很想和你讨论一下带罗达去尚卡尔的新学校的事。拉贾对我带拉达去印度生活从来都不太感兴趣，因为他说那里的气候太糟糕了，但我非常想去。

    This letter is characteristic of my mother who could turn in a sentence  from her grief and shock back toward her zest for life. Yet she felt  sorrow intensely. I have seen it often in her face, her blue eyes with  their innocence fill with silent tears as she bit her lip and gazed away out  the window. Then it would pass ⌒ brightness would return. My father  attributed this changeableness to her being a Gemini ⌒ an explanation  that she disliked. 
这封信是我母亲的特点，她可以把她的悲伤和震惊变成她对生活的热情。然而她感到强烈的悲伤。我经常从她的脸上看到这一点，当她咬着嘴唇凝视着窗外时，她那天真的蓝眼睛里充满了无声的泪水。然后它就过去了，亮度又回来了。我父亲把这种变化归因于她是双子座――她不喜欢这个解释。

    Raja had long ago lost any desire to live in India; he returned only  because he had to accompany Krishna and to see his mother. At that  moment he was also pessimistic about the future of the world and  thought it sensible for us all to remain together in Ojai. 
拉贾很久以前就失去了在印度生活的愿望;他回来只是因为他必须陪伴奎师那，去看他的母亲。那一刻，他也对世界的未来感到悲观，认为我们所有人都留在欧康是明智的。

    But Rosalind was restless. She had missed the past two summer camps  in Ommen. And Sara's death had left a great gap in her life. My father  usually seemed unaware of or unconcerned with the daily routine of our  lives and we saw him at most for dinner. But sometimes he was alert to a  particular discontent and then made an effort to be more of a companion  ⌒even to the extent of walking with us. There was a steep climb behind  Arya Vihara called Twin Peaks. One day my parents and I did the four  miles to top. Such occasions of my father's companionship were rare  enough that I remember each distinctly. 
但是罗莎琳德不安分。她错过了过去两次在阿曼的夏令营。萨拉的死给她的生活留下了巨大的空白。我的父亲通常似乎不知道或不关心我们的日常生活，我们看到他最多晚饭。但有时他会对我们的不满有所警觉，然后努力成为我们的伴侣，甚至是和我们一起散步。艾莉亚・维哈拉后面有一座陡峭的山峰，叫做双峰。有一天，我和父母跑了四英里到达山顶。父亲陪伴我的这种场合很少，每次我都记得很清楚。

    On 20 June 1939, came another shock from Mr Robbie. It was written  coincidentally on my mother's birthday. 
1939年6月20日，罗比先生又给了我一个震惊。这封信恰好写在我母亲的生日那天。

    Dearest Rozzie, 
    Deborah was buried today. She eluded the nurses and hanged herself  Sunday night just when the doctors were feeling much encouraged  about her recovery. 
    The last few times [ saw her she seemed so completely normal and  clear thinking that I began to think she might be able to shake off this  obsession of self-destruction and come back to Sarobia . . . However  I never really counted on her recovery for I felt the real damage had  been done years ago and that Sara's death only brought on an acute  attack. The tragedy really occurred twenty years ago when she fell  into Dr White's clutches and it is better to have her gone than to have  her spend her life in confinement and under a cloud of depression  and fear. 
亲爱的Rozzie,
黛博拉今天下葬了。周日晚上，就在医生们对她的康复感到非常鼓舞的时候，她避开了护士，上吊自杀了。
我最后几次见到她，她看起来完全正常，思维清晰，我开始认为她可能能够摆脱这种自我毁灭的困扰，回到萨罗比亚…然而，我从来没有指望她能康复，因为我觉得真正的伤害在几年前就已经造成了，萨拉的死只是带来了急性发作。悲剧确实发生在20年前，当时她落入了怀特医生的魔爪。与其让她在压抑和恐惧的阴影中度过一生，不如让她离开。

    Robert had always claimed not to enjoy babies or very small children  but after two such terrible losses in one year, which he bore with outward  stoicism, he adopted both my mother and me as his closest family. 
    I should like very much to have a picture of you and a picture of  Radha or one of you both if you have no separate ones. If you haven't  had one taken with Radha you should do so before she begins to shoot  up and get gawky . . . 
    I miss you both very much for you are both close to my heart.  Affectionately,  ROBERT 
罗伯特一直声称自己不喜欢婴儿或小孩子，但在一年内失去了两次这样可怕的孩子之后，他以表面上的坚忍接受了，他把我和我母亲都收养了，作为他最亲密的家人。
我很想有一张你的照片和一张拉达的照片，或者如果你们没有单独的照片的话，你们俩都有一张。如果你还没有和罗陀拍过一张，你应该在她开始注射和变得笨拙之前这样做…
我非常想念你们两个，因为你们都在我的心里。亲切,罗伯特

    Because of the war in Europe the Berkeleys could not make their annual  trips to Santa Barbara and in 1939 Molly had offered her ?(r)little cottage'  to us mor¨| or less indefinitely. It was seldom that my father came over.  That summer he went on his own to Europe, leaving my mother and  Krinsh to enjoy Molly's offer. Molly's house was a castle to me. |  delighted in the silver wallpaper in the master bedroom and the sunken  black marble tub. There were servants' quarters and lovely grounds that  came complete with an Italian gardener. His lunch, consisting ofa raw  egg, carefully pierced at either end, sucked out of 1ts shell, and gulped  down with his homemade rootbeer, fascinated me. 
由于欧洲的战争，伯克利一家不能每年去圣巴巴拉旅行。1939年，莫利把她的“小别墅”或多或少无限期地提供给我们。我父亲很少过来。那年夏天，他独自一人去了欧洲，留下我母亲和克林什去享受莫莉的提议。莫利的家对我来说就是一座城堡。我很喜欢主卧室的银色壁纸和黑色大理石下沉式浴缸。那里有仆人的住处和可爱的庭院，还有一位意大利园丁。他的午餐包括一个生鸡蛋，两端都小心地打了洞，从蛋壳里吸出来，喝着自制的根啤大口地吃下去，这让我着迷。

    At first Rosalind had been appalled by the size of the house and  decided to decline Molly's offer, but Maria Huxley loved it as it was  very Italian in design and situation. She persuaded Rosalind to accept  the house and showed her how to close off much of it and thus cut  down on the upkeep. 
起初，罗莎琳德对房子的大小感到震惊，决定拒绝莫莉的提议，但玛丽亚・赫胥黎喜欢它，因为它在设计和位置上都非常意大利。她说服罗莎琳德接受了这所房子，并告诉她如何关闭大部分房屋，从而减少维护费用。

      Mr Robbie, who even through tragedy, had not lost his light touch  wrote: 
    August 29, 1939  Dearest Rozzie, ,  I am so glad you and Krinsh are roughing it so successfully in  Lady Berkeley's little shack! I should love to be there with you.  I wonder if you could send me the negatives of three of the snap  shots you sent me so I could have them enlarged?  One is the picture of you sitting on the railing and looking a good  deal like a young girl graduate dreaming of Clark Gable.  The second is of Radha and Krinsh . . . and the third is of Radha,  you and Beato . . . 
罗比先生，即使经历了悲剧，也没有失去他轻松的风格，他写道:
1939年8月29日最亲爱的罗齐:我很高兴你和克林什在伯克利夫人的小棚屋里过得如此成功!我很想和你在一起。我想知道你是否可以把你发给我的三张快照的底片寄给我，这样我可以把它们放大。一张是你坐在栏杆上的照片，看起来很像一个年轻的女毕业生，梦想着克拉克・盖博。第二个是罗陀和克林什……第三个是罗陀、你和比托……

    We had many visitors, among them Jinarajadasa and the Huxleys,  who came quite often, and sometimes brought their friend, Bertrand  Russell. Russell was spending that year in Santa Barbara having, like  Aldous Huxley and Christopher Isherwood, decided that England was  not just then a fertile place for pacifists. At least he found kindred  spirits among us though each of our group had his own very individual  approach. 
我们有许多客人，其中有吉那拉贾达萨和赫胥黎夫妇，他们经常来，有时还带来他们的朋友伯特兰・罗素。罗素在圣巴巴拉度过了那一年，就像赫胥黎和伊舍伍德一样，他认为英国不是和平主义者的沃土。至少他在我们中间找到了志同道合的人，尽管我们每个人都有自己非常独特的方法。

    In Santa Barbara Rosalind found she was pregnant for the third time  and now, somewhat recklessly, considered having this child. She loved  children and had always wanted more. The threatened cancer had not  returned and she had more or less forgotten all about it. Being thirty-six,  however, she realized the risks of a pregnancy were even greater than  before and was therefore partly testing Krishna when she told him  her feelings. He certainly made it clear that he didn't think it a very  good idea for them to have this baby. He didn't go so far as to put  into words that she must have another abortion, but he never needed  words to make his wishes clear, and again she got on the bus alone, he  solicitous and loving as ever and giving her the same tender care when  she returned. 

在圣巴巴拉，罗莎琳德发现自己第三次怀孕了，现在她有点不顾一切地考虑要下这个孩子。她喜欢孩子，一直想要更多。癌症的威胁并没有复发，她或多或少把它忘得一干二净。然而，36岁的她意识到怀孕的风险比以前更大，因此，当她告诉克里希纳自己的感受时，她在一定程度上是在试探他。他明确表示，他认为他们生下这个孩子不是个好主意。他甚至没有说她必须再堕胎一次，但他不需要用语言来表达他的愿望，她又独自上了车，他一如既往地关心她，爱她，当她回来时，他给了她同样的温柔照顾。