17 A Garden of Peaceina World at War 和平的花园――战争中的世界

    Krinsh was by far the most rewarding person to play pranks on. The  sour lime tree in the orchard bore fruit with juice that looked exactly  like the juice of an orange. Whenever I served this to Krinsh for breakfast  he gave a wonderful performance of surprise and shock. Putting frogs in  his bed met with equal success. The row of acacias leading from Arya  Vihara to Pine Cottage was on a route travelled by Krinsh at regular  intervals throughout the day. As he was a person of precise routinc it  was easy for me and my cousin David to know just when to hide in  a tree with a small pail of water ready to dump on his head. He never  scolded us for inflicting this considerable inconvenience on him and he  never failed us in reacting exactly as we hoped he would, sometimes  pretending he knew just where we were, holding his large straw hat  over his head and running -only to have guessed wrong. 
到目前为止，克林什是最值得开恶作剧的人。果园里的酸橙树结的果子的汁液看起来和橘子汁一模一样。每当我把这个端给克林什当早餐时，他总是表现得既惊讶又震惊。在他的床上放青蛙也同样成功。从Arya Vihara到Pine Cottage的那排金合花，是krish一天中每隔一段时间都会走过的路线。因为他是一个有精确路线的人，所以我和我的表弟大卫很容易就知道什么时候该躲在树上，拿着一小桶水准备泼在他的头上。他从来没有责备我们给他造成这么大的不便，他的反应也从来没有辜负我们的期望，有时他假装知道我们在哪里，把他的大草帽举过头顶，然后跑――结果却猜错了。

    That the peculiarities of our family did not make me in the least  self-conscious was due largely to my mother. She had a way of making  things turn out for the best, at least where I was concerned. When [  mentioned once that all my friends had turkeys at Thanksgiving time  and why didn't we, she came home one day with a pair of turkey chicks.  It didn't occur to me until much later that this was not the usual way to  serve up turkey. By dubious fortune the chicks grew into a male and a  female and when the time was right Mrs Turkey devoted a great deal  of effort to egg laying. Even the gobbler became distraught by her  obsession with sitting on endless batches of eggs. Finally he turned to  me for comfort. The huge bird, who weighed as much as I did, would  hop on to my lap and put his strange wattled head on my shoulder.  Indeed he so loyally attached himself to me that he slept on the railing  at the top of the outside stairs by my room and no one dared to go up  there without his permission. 
我们家的种种特点，我一点也不觉得难为情，这在很大程度上要归功于我母亲。她有办法让事情朝好的方向发展，至少在我看来是这样。有一次我提到，我所有的朋友都在感恩节吃火鸡，为什么我们不吃呢?有一天，她带着一对火鸡小鸡回家。直到很久以后，我才意识到这不是通常的上火鸡的方式。运气不太好，小鸡长成了一只雄性和一只雌性，时机成熟时，火鸡太太花了很大的精力来下蛋。就连斗鸡也被她对坐在一批批没完没了的鸡蛋上的痴迷弄得心烦意乱。最后他转向我寻求安慰。那只和我一样重的大鸟，会跳上我的腿，把它那奇怪的、长着鸡冠的头靠在我的肩膀上。事实上，他是如此忠诚地依附于我，以至于他睡在我房间外楼梯顶部的栏杆上，没有他的允许，没有人敢上去。

    When at length his forty offspring grew to full size the whole flock would join us on our afternoon walks up the road toward Thacher School; bad luck for any of the few cars that wanted to use the road at that hour. There were heavy rains that winter and in one storm the bridge at the bottom of the road washed out and the one above us was  about to go. If that happened we would be cut off from the village.  There was a good deal of concern among the adults; the turkeys and  joined them near the bridge watching the water rampage over the  boulders and eat away at the pilings. The turkeys tilted their heads and  peered over the bank with amazement. 
等他的四十个孩子长得够大的时候，整个羊群就会和我们一起在下午去撒切尔学校的路上散步;在那个时候，想要通过这条路的少数几辆车中的任何一辆都会倒霉。那年冬天下了大雨，在一场暴风雨中，路底部的桥被冲垮了，我们上面的那座桥也要塌了。如果发生这种情况，我们将被切断与村庄的联系。大人们都很担心;火鸡在桥附近加入了他们，看着水冲过巨石，侵蚀着桩子。火鸡歪着头，惊奇地望着河岸。

    My friends came to watch our turkeys, whose favourite pastime was  tobogganing down the back of the Lincoln Zephyr, which was moulded  in one sleek slope from roof to bumper. If Krinsh felt annoyed that his  regular polishing and care of the car was futile, he never showed it.  After the next Thanksgiving had come and gone our turkeys were still  happily running around the garden. 
我的朋友们来看我们的火鸡，它们最喜欢的消遣是在林肯和风的后面滑雪橇，这是一个从屋顶到保险杠的光滑斜坡。如果克林什对他定期的擦亮和保养汽车是徒劳的感到恼火，他从不表现出来。下一个感恩节来了又走了，我们家的火鸡仍然快乐地在花园里跑来跑去。


    When I was very young [ was spared the uglier of life's realities. One  summer we departed for our usual stay in Carmel. On our return to  Ojai all the young turkeys had gone. I sensed it would be a mistake  to insist on knowing what had happened to them. I was told they  had gone away as there was no one at home to look after them. It  was Willie, of course, who always dealt with that side of life, usually  sparing everyone else the details; however, I had heard him grumble  occasionally when Mr Robbie complained about the gopher traps. ?(r)You  can't have it both ways, if you want a good orchard, you have to get rid  of the pests.?± Not long after that, coyotes made off with Mrs Turkey  and my gobbler. That was my next loss after Sara, and as all children  in time must do, I was beginning to learn that grief is an inevitable  part of life. 
在我很小的时候，我没有经历过现实生活的丑恶。有一年夏天，我们像往常一样去卡梅尔度假。当我们回到欧康时，所有的小火鸡都走了。我意识到坚持要知道他们发生了什么事是一个错误。我听说他们走了，因为家里没有人照顾他们。当然，总是威利负责生活的这一方面，通常不让别人知道细节;不过，当罗比先生抱怨捕鼠器时，我偶尔听到他发牢骚。鱼与熊掌不可兼得，如果你想要一个好的果园，你就必须消灭害虫。没过多久，土狼就把火鸡太太和我的火鸡叼走了。这是我在莎拉之后的又一次失去亲人，就像所有孩子早晚都会经历的那样，我开始明白悲伤是生活中不可避免的一部分。

    Happily two goslings followed quickly on the disappearance of the  turkeys and soon grew into two enormous geese. Eggs began app- earing, fortunately from them both, so we were spared the problem  of any more gaggles of fowl. The eggs made delicious omelettes and  the geese seemed happy not to have to spend their time sitting on  them. Instead they became fierce guardians and attacked all those  they disliked, though their idea of friend or foe was never clear to  us. They particularly disliked ladies in stockings. I am sure there  were those who felt they were failing in their spiritual advancement  if geese so closely associated with Krinsh picked on them with such  outraged contempt. 
幸运的是，随着火鸡的消失，两只小鹅很快就长成了两只大鹅。幸运的是，他们俩都开始下蛋了，所以我们就避免了再孵鸡的问题。鸡蛋做成了美味的煎蛋卷，鹅们似乎很高兴不用把时间花在鸡蛋上。相反，他们变成了凶猛的守护者，攻击所有他们不喜欢的人，尽管他们的朋友或敌人的概念对我们来说从来都不清楚。他们尤其不喜欢穿长袜的女士。我敢肯定，如果与克林什关系如此密切的鹅以如此愤怒的蔑视对他们进行攻击，有些人会觉得自己在精神进步方面失败了。

    My grandmother's health was failing in 1939 and Rosalind made frequent  trips to Hollywood to help Erma take care of her. Krinsh then became  my guardian as well as playmate, seeing that I ate properly, dressed  neatly for school, and showed responsibility for the animals. He was always protective and I felt completely safe with him, but David and  I often took advantage of his indulgence toward us. 
1939年，我祖母的身体每况愈下，罗莎琳德经常去好莱坞帮助埃尔玛照顾她。然后，克林什成了我的监护人和玩伴，看着我吃得好，穿得整齐，对动物负责。他总是保护我，我觉得和他在一起很安全，但大卫和我经常利用他对我们的放纵。

    Dearest Mummy, 
    The other day Krinsh and Davit and T all took a little walk and found a dead snake on the road. We wanted to take it home. But we did not want to carry that smelly thing all the way home so Krinsh said that he would and when we got home we put the snake in the  garage and when Grace came down to bring the paper she saw the  snake. Then she began to scrime for she thought it was alive . . . 
最亲爱的妈妈,
有一天，克林什、戴维特和我一起出去散步，在路上发现了一条死蛇。我们想把它带回家。但是我们不想带着那臭东西一路回家，所以克林什说他会的。我们到家后，我们把蛇放在车库里，当格蕾丝下楼拿报纸时，她看到了蛇。然后她开始犯罪，因为她认为它是活的…

    No doubt it was again Willie who had to dispose of the smelly snake. 
毫无疑问，又是威利必须处理掉这条臭蛇。

    But when it came to thought, Krinsh was another person. The gentle  easy-going nature disappeared and he could be as fierce with me, if I  asked or said something he thought stupid, as he was with his audiences  in the Oak Grove or at the small Sunday discussion groups at Arya  Vihara. 1 tried hard not to arouse this side of him for I found it  most discomforting and felt tender pity for those poor questioners  who recklessly laid themselves open to his scorn and impatience by  asking stupid questions. The pained look on his face should have been  enough to quell curiosity in the most determined seeker of truth, yet  they tried again and again. ?(r)What about life after death, reincarnation,  and belief (or disbelief) in an ultimate reality??± Imagine when I came  along and asked if he believed in fairies like our Finnish cook did! 
但当谈到思想时，克林什是另一个人。温和随和的本性消失了，如果我问他或说他认为愚蠢的事情，他对我就会像他在橡树林剧院或在艾里亚寺的礼拜天小讨论会上对他的听众那样凶狠。我努力不去激起他的这一面，因为我发现这是最令人不安的，我对那些可怜的提问者感到同情，他们不顾一切地提出愚蠢的问题，使自己暴露在他的蔑视和不耐烦之下。他脸上痛苦的表情应该足以平息最坚定的真理探索者的好奇心，然而他们一次又一次地尝试。(r)死后的生命、转世和相信(或不相信)终极现实呢?想象一下，当我走过来问他是否像我们的芬兰厨师一样相信仙女的时候!

    ?(r)That', he said, ?(r)is like the three blind men and the elephant. The one  who feels the trunk claims it is a tree, the one who feels the tail claims  it 1s a rope =' 
“那，”他说，“就像三个盲人和大象。”摸到树干的人说它是树，摸到尾巴的人说它是绳子。

    I don't remember what the third claimed but I got the point and  never dared ask the next question foremost in my mind ⌒ did he believe  in Santa Claus? In time, as I grew older I realized that the very word  belief was not a question of what but of why. Why we wanted to believe  anything revealed our own psychology. It was important to observe and  experience; ourselves as well as the world around us, without labelling  or judging. Neither had Krinsh any regard for an accumulation of facts  or knowledge and ifI had been solely under his influence I would have  considered education a colossal waste of time. 
我不记得第三个人说了什么，但我明白了他的意思，我再也不敢问我脑海中最重要的下一个问题:他相信有圣诞老人吗?随着年龄的增长，我逐渐意识到，信仰这个词本身并不是一个“是什么”的问题，而是一个“为什么”的问题。为什么我们想要相信任何事情都揭示了我们自己的心理。观察和体验是很重要的;我们自己以及我们周围的世界，没有标签或评判。克林什也不关心事实或知识的积累，如果我只受他的影响，我会认为教育是浪费时间。

    Either for better or worse there were other influences on me. My  father taught me to read and write and do arithmetic and geography  long before I went to school and I treasured these times with him. Erma  came up from Hollywood almost every weekend and she taught me to  love books, history and nature. David and I would walk in the Ojai hills with her and learn the names of all the sages and grasses and rock  formations. She had a lovely singing voice; as a little girl I always wanted  her to sing me to sleep. Erma said of herself that she was an observer.  She never sought to be the centre of any situation but was content to  watch without criticism the goings on around her. | have never met  anyone who was more of a joy to be with than Ermie. Capable of  profound philosophical discussions, she also had a delightful sense of  humour. Krinsh called her Sister Erma, a pleasant familiarity that she  enjoyed. She was always different in her political views from the rest  of my adults, more conservative, and stood up to them very well with  her arguments, even against Krinsh, for she knew a considerable amount  of history which she had taught herself. Erma, like Sara, was one of  those rare women who grow more and more beautiful with age. 
不管是好是坏，还有其他因素影响着我。早在我上学之前，父亲就教我读书、写字、算术和地理，我很珍惜和他在一起的时光。Erma几乎每个周末都从好莱坞回来，她教我热爱书籍、历史和自然。我和大卫会和她一起在欧康山上散步，学习所有圣人、草和岩层的名字。她有一副可爱的歌喉;当我还是个小女孩的时候，我总想让她唱歌哄我入睡。埃尔玛说她自己是一个观察者。她从不寻求成为任何情况的中心，而是满足于不带批评地观看周围发生的事情。我从来没有遇到过比埃米更让人愉快的人。她能进行深刻的哲学讨论，也有令人愉快的幽默感。克林什叫她厄玛姐姐，她很喜欢这种亲切的称呼。她的政治观点总是与我的其他成年人不同，她更保守，并且在她的论点中很好地支持他们，甚至反对克林什，因为她知道相当多的历史，这些历史都是她自学的。埃尔玛和萨拉一样，是那种随着年龄增长而变得越来越漂亮的罕见的女人。

    And then there were the Huxleys. Aldous and Maria came to Ojai  frequently. Even though Aldous was blind in one eye and could see  very little in the other, the intensity of his interest made him seem to  have keener sight than those of us with perfect vision. He was never  overbearing with his knowledge and with childlike delight ⌒ like Krinsh he would squat down on the grass with me and play with the geese  (which he named Toddleiums and Susielums, names soon reduced to  Toby and Susie by Mr Robbie. (The fact that Toby was a lady goose  was disregarded.) I was too young to be in awe of Aldous. I have a clear  vision of him, on those weekends, sitting on the lower lawn under the  large pine tree, typing a book. First, After Many a Summer Dies the Swan,  one of whose characters he said was loosely based on my mother, but he  would not tell her which, although he seemed surprised that she didn't  recognize herself. When he asked her how she liked the book she said,  ?(r)Aldous, I'm sorry but I can't honestly say I liked it.?± ?(r)Good,' he said,  ?(r)it was not supposed to be liked.'  Maria had a little Pomeranian called LouLou that went nearly every- where with her. She was not altogether an animal person, being of  the same super-fastidious nature as my father. Yet it was she who one  Easter, when we went to tea at their home in Los Angeles, presented  me with a baby goat. My mother took this unusual gift in her stride  and we took the goat back to Ojai, where eventually it was my job to  milk it, although it was never my favourite animal. Aldous shared our  family's love for animals and he and Maria had both become vegetarians  since their arrival in America. This was a bond between us all, as was an  affinity for nature ⌒ particularly in Krinsh and Aldous. On their long  walks they would observe together, Aldous knowing all the names in  Latin and English of flowers, shrubs and butterflies. Krinsh, generally disapproving of labels, but seemingly fascinated by Aldous's ability.  Their minds approached nature from such opposite paths and yet they  found harmony in each other's company. Aldous quoted a German  philosopher who once said the greatest joy is to pick your nose while  watching the sunset; Krinsh would say just watch, don't remark on it  or try to hold the beauty in your memory or it will be lost instantly. 
然后是赫胥黎家族。奥多斯和玛丽亚经常来欧康。尽管奥尔多斯一只眼睛失明，另一只眼睛也几乎看不见东西，但他的强烈兴趣使他的视力似乎比我们这些视力完美的人更敏锐。他从不以自己的知识为傲，他会像克林什一样带着孩子般的快乐，和我一起蹲在草地上和鹅玩耍(他给它们起名叫“蹒跚学步”和“苏西”，很快被罗比先生改成了“托比”和“苏西”)。(托比是一只母鹅的事实被忽略了。)我太年轻了，不可能敬畏奥多斯。我清楚地看到，在那些周末，他坐在低矮的草坪上，在一棵大松树下打字。第一本书是《许多个夏天消逝之后》，他说书中的一个角色大致是以我母亲为原型的，但他不肯告诉她是哪一个，尽管他似乎很惊讶她竟然认不出自己。当他问她是否喜欢这本书时，她说:“对不起，奥多斯，我不能诚实地说我喜欢这本书。”“(r)很好，”他说，“(r)它不应该被喜欢。”玛丽亚有一只名叫露露的小博美犬，几乎和她一起去任何地方。她并不完全是一个兽性的人，她和我父亲一样，有着超级挑剔的天性。然而，在一个复活节，当我们去他们位于洛杉矶的家中喝茶时，她送给我一只小山羊。妈妈从容地接过这份不寻常的礼物，我们把山羊带回了欧康。在那里，给它挤奶成了我的工作，尽管我从来不喜欢它。奥多斯和我们家一样喜欢动物，他和玛丽亚来到美国后都成了素食者。这是我们所有人之间的纽带，就像对大自然的亲和力一样，尤其是在克林什和奥尔多斯。在漫长的散步中，他们会一起观察，奥多斯知道所有花、灌木和蝴蝶的拉丁语和英语名称。通常不赞成贴标签，但似乎被奥尔德斯的能力迷住了。他们的思想从截然相反的道路走向自然，然而他们在彼此的陪伴中找到了和谐。奥尔多斯引用了一位德国哲学家的话，他曾经说过，最大的快乐是在看日落的时候挖鼻孔;克林什会说，只要看就好，不要评论它，也不要试着把美丽留在你的记忆中，否则它会立刻消失。

    loved going to the Huxleys. Something exciting always happened  around them. Once a rather mixed group of us including Bertrand Russell  with his sons, Aldous and Maria with their son, various Hollywood  personalities, plus Krinsh all went for a walk in what was then the back  country ⌒ the hills of Los Angeles. Signs were posted everywhere against  smoking or fires and we were all scrambling illegally under barbed wire  fences, crossing private land and defying ?(r)no trespassing' signs. That  was all right but then the Russells all started smoking. That was not  all right, even with Aldous who understood by then the hazards of  our California dry season. But nothing deterred them ⌒~ until a deputy  sheriff appeared with a drawn gun and was ready to arrest the lot of  us. ?(r)Sure and I'm Bob Hope,?± he said when someone tried to explain  that none of us were criminals, in fact ?(r)There is a famous writer, there  a famous actress, and there a famous philosopher' ⌒ however he let us  go after a good scolding about the cigarettes. 
我喜欢去赫胥黎家。他们周围总是发生一些令人兴奋的事情。有一次，我们一群人混杂在一起，包括伯特兰・罗素和他的儿子，奥多斯和玛丽亚和他们的儿子，各种好莱坞名人，还有克林什，我们一起去洛杉矶山区的偏僻乡村散步。到处都张贴着禁止吸烟和生火的标志，我们都在非法爬过带刺的铁丝网，穿过私人土地，无视“禁止侵入”的标志。这还好，但后来罗素一家都开始抽烟了。这是不对的，即使奥尔多斯当时已经明白我们加州旱季的危险。但是没有什么能阻止他们，直到一个副警长拿着拔出的枪出现，准备逮捕我们所有人。当然可以，我是鲍勃・霍普。他说，当有人试图解释我们都不是罪犯时，事实上，(r)有一个著名的作家，有一个著名的女演员，还有一个著名的哲学家，然而，他在香烟的问题上狠狠地骂了我们一顿后，就让我们走了。

    Dinners at Arya Vihara, even when we no longer had a cook and my  mother had to do everything herself, were formal in comparison to the  rest of the day. I can still picture my mother, in a long dress she had  made of Indian silk, at one end of the table with Krinsh at the other  end in a curved high-backed chair. When Mr Robbie or Aldous was  present, she gave up her place to him with Krinsh always sitting at the  far end. [ never remember my father sitting at cither end. 

在Arya Vihara的晚餐，即使我们不再有厨师，我母亲不得不自己做所有的事情，与一天中的其他时间相比，还是很正式的。我还能想象母亲穿着她用印度丝绸做的长裙，坐在桌子的一头，克林什坐在桌子的另一头，坐在一张弯曲的高背椅上。当罗比先生或奥多斯先生在场时，她把座位让给他，而克林什总是坐在最远的那一头。我不记得父亲坐在两头。

    Everyone, even Krinsh, deferred to Mr Robbie. There was something  beyond his age that inspired this. After dinner we played poker dice with  Mr Robbie's beautiful Chinese eight-sided ivory dice or Monopoly, at  which my mother excelled. Even Krinsh played occasionally, always  looking a bit pained, but I am sure he would not have played if he  had not enjoyed it, for he never did anything he didn't really want  to do. In her autobiography, Beato described those evenings and how  they struck some people not in our immediate household. 
每个人，甚至克林什，都顺从罗比先生。有一种超越他年龄的东西激发了他的灵感。晚饭后，我们用罗比先生的漂亮的中国八面象牙骰子或大富翁玩扑克骰子，我母亲擅长这个。就连克林什也偶尔弹一弹，看上去总是有点痛苦，但我敢肯定，如果他不乐此不疲，他是不会弹的，因为他从来不做自己不想做的事。在她的自传中，比托描述了那些夜晚，以及它们如何打击了一些不是我们直系亲属的人。

    Friends in Hollywood were excited whenever | went to Arya Vihara  and asked me to listen carefully to everything Krishnamurti said so  that I could report back to them. At first [ went to Ojai expecting to hear talk of ?(r)higher' matters, and was surprised to hear conversations  that revolved around Rosalind's vegetable garden and the cow . . . 
好莱坞的朋友们每次去Arya Vihara都很兴奋，让我仔细听克里希那穆提说的每句话，这样我就可以向他们汇报。一开始我去欧康期待听到更高层次的话题，却惊讶地听到围绕着罗莎琳德的菜园和奶牛的谈话……

    I longed to discuss such things as the third aspect of the Logos,  or the coming of the Sixth Root Race; but conversations usually  dealt with human affairs and the activities were unpretentious and  ordinary. In fact, everyone loved games, especially Monopoly. One  night Rosalind, who was a real shark at real estate, got everybody's  holdings and even bankrupted Krishnamurti. I sat there paralyzed  with boredom when Krishamurti, catching my distant gaze, suddenly  threw up his hands and said: ?(r)Beatrice has no idea what this is about  and never will. Don't bother with her anymore.?± I was enormously  relieved to withdraw myself from the encounter, which went on for  three more hours!! 
我渴望讨论逻各斯的第三个方面，或者第六根种族的到来;但谈话通常涉及人类事务，活动也不做作，很普通。事实上，每个人都喜欢游戏，尤其是大富翁。一天晚上，罗莎琳德，一个真正的房地产高手，拿走了所有人的财产，甚至使克里希那穆提破产。我呆呆地坐在那里，无聊得不知所措，这时克里沙穆提看到我远处的目光，突然举起双手说:比阿特丽斯不知道这是怎么回事，永远也不知道。别再为她操心了。我从这场持续了三个多小时的冲突中解脱出来，这使我大大地松了一口气!!

    It was seldom that Krinsh became involved enough to stick out a  game that long. He most enjoyed games which required no thinking  whatsoever. He would never have dreamed of playing chess. Most  often, promptly at nine o'clock, he would leave for his cottage after  having pulled out and carefully consulted his Patek Philippe. 
Krinsh很少投入到游戏中并坚持这么长时间。他最喜欢不需要思考的游戏。他做梦也想不到会下棋。最常见的情况是，他会在9点钟准时出门，然后仔细查看他的百达翡丽(Patek Philippe)手表。

    Mr Robbie had a Patek Philippe also and he and Krinsh compared  their watches daily to the second. They tuned in to the government  time service in Virginia every Sunday on my father's short-wave radio.  I used to wonder how, in our kind of life, the exact time could matter  so much. I could see where the second hand was important to Krinsh  in his Yoga breathing exercises but not the hour hand. Perhaps perfect  punctuality was a remnant of Leadbeater's upbringing. 
罗比先生也有一只百达翡丽手表，他和克林什每天都拿他们的手表和第二只进行比较。他们每周日都用父亲的短波收音机收听弗吉尼亚州的政府报时节目。我曾经想过，在我们这种生活中，确切的时间怎么会如此重要。我可以看出，在克里什的瑜伽呼吸练习中，秒针对他很重要，但时针却不重要。也许完美的准时是利德比特成长过程中留下的痕迹。

    Although my upbringing seemed strict to me in comparison to that  of my friends, this strictness applied more to behaviour than activities.  There were relatively few activities in that time and place that could  lead to serious trouble. In the eyes of all of my parents, lying was the  worse offence ⌒ no other misdemeanour could equal it; it was always  better to tell the truth and take the consequences. I interpreted this to  mean that I did not have to volunteer confessions that were not asked  for. Probably the naughtiest thing (and the most dangerous) that David  and I and an occasional friend did was to swim in the reservoirs on the  adjacent ranches. These wonderful large pools of only slightly slimy  green water nestled in the foothills and were used for irrigation. The  slippery sloping sides could be treacherous when little wet feet tried to  climb back out and drowning was not at all an unlikely possibility. None  of these dangers, of course, meant a thing on a hot summer day. One of  my earliest disillusionments came when I confided one day to Krinsh only after he had crossed his heart and hoped to die if he betrayed our  secret ⌒ that we had swum in the reservoir, although one at a time so  that the other two could help the swimmer out by lowering down a  pair of blue jeans to grasp hold of. We had thought this eminently  sensible and above criticism, at least from him who appeared to be  always on our side in our pranks. He did even then seem to be on  our side and offered not even the mildest scolding. I shall never forget  my overwhelming sense of betrayal when my mother called me in and  confronted me with this escapade, admitting that Krinsh had told her.  At that moment I lost my trust in him. I did not wonder then why he  had chosen to break his word rather than to take an adult stance and  deal with this small matter of discipline himself. He might casily have  explained that the situation was far too dangerous to indulge in childish  secrets and that he must be sure I would never do it again. I am sure  I would have disliked this approach but it would have preserved my  confidence in him. I was never to trust him with a secret again or  with any small personal problem that arose in pressing urgency in my  adolescent years. From then on [ went to the person [ would always  look to in serious moments ⌒ my father. 
虽然与我的朋友相比，我的成长环境对我来说似乎很严格，但这种严格更多地适用于行为而不是活动。在那个时间和地点，可能导致严重麻烦的活动相对较少。在我父母的眼里，说谎是最严重的罪行，没有其他的轻罪能与之相提并论;说实话并承担后果总是好的。我把这句话理解为我不必主动招供。也许大卫和我以及一个偶尔的朋友做过的最顽皮(也是最危险的)的事情就是在邻近牧场的水库里游泳。这些奇妙的大水池，只有轻微粘稠的绿色水依偎在山脚下，用于灌溉。当小湿脚试图爬出来时，湿滑的斜坡可能很危险，溺水的可能性也不是不可能的。当然，在炎热的夏天，这些危险都不算什么。我最早的一次幻想破灭发生在有一天，我向克林什吐露了这个秘密――他发誓说，如果他泄露了我们在水库里游泳的秘密，我就死定了，不过是一次一个人，这样另外两个人就可以放下一条蓝色牛仔裤，帮助游泳者上岸。我们认为这是非常明智的，不容批评的，至少他在恶作剧中总是站在我们一边。即使在那个时候，他似乎也站在我们这边，连最温和的责骂都没有。我永远不会忘记，当我母亲把我叫进去，当面告诉我这件事，承认是克林什告诉她的时候，我那种被背叛的强烈感觉。在那一刻，我对他失去了信任。我当时并不奇怪，为什么他选择违背诺言，而不是采取成年人的立场，亲自处理这件纪律问题。他可以很容易地解释说，这种情况太危险了，不能沉溺于孩子气的秘密，他必须确保我再也不会这样做了。我肯定我不喜欢这种做法，但这会保持我对他的信心。我再也不能把任何秘密托付给他，也不能把我在青少年时期出现的任何紧迫的个人问题托付给他。从那时起，我就成了在严肃时刻总要求助于我父亲的人。

    In September 1939 Raja returned from Europe, after stopping in Detroit  on the way to California to pick up a sporty Cadillac convertible. His  new car was received by Krishna and Rosalind with no more enthusiasm  than his driving. Krishna displayed the same contemptuous reaction  as in 1924, when Raja turned up with a Buick. Rosalind felt it was  inappropriate for Raja to own a Cadillac. As it had been stripped of  its paint by a sandstorm while crossing the desert, Raja was persuaded  to turn it in, for a blue Ford Coup¨|. 
1939年9月，拉贾从欧洲回来，在去加州的路上，他在底特律停了一下，买了一辆运动型的凯迪拉克敞篷车。克里希纳和罗莎琳德对他的新车并不比他的驾驶热情。克里希纳表现出与1924年一样的轻蔑反应，当时拉贾开着一辆别克出现了。罗莎琳德觉得拉贾不适合拥有一辆凯迪拉克。由于它在穿越沙漠时被一场沙尘暴刮掉了漆，拉贾被说服把它交出去，换了一辆蓝色的福特Coup¨。

    Before leaving Holland Raja had desperately urged his Dutch friends  to emigrate to America. He was convinced by what he had seen on  a side trip to Germany that as soon as the bumper German crop  was harvested, Hitler would turn westward and eventually march on  Holland. Only one family, the Vigevenos, believed him and with their  three children and valuable art collection, left everything else behind and  sailed on what was to be the last boat to America. After the war Annie  Vigeveno would learn that forty of her German relatives had died in  concentration camps. 
在离开荷兰之前，拉贾曾拼命敦促他的荷兰朋友移民到美国。他在一次德国之行中所看到的一切使他确信，一旦德国丰收，希特勒就会转向西方，最终向荷兰进军。只有维格韦诺斯一家相信了他的话，带着他们的三个孩子和珍贵的艺术收藏品，抛下了一切，登上了最后一艘前往美国的船。战争结束后，安妮・维格韦诺得知她有40个德国亲戚死于集中营。

    I was shielded from most of the horrors of the war. My mother  saw to it that I heard none of the news broadcasts that Krinsh and  my father listened to every night. Fearing that the future held grave  uncertainty, she wanted my childhood to be normal and happy for as long as possible. At the same time I was encouraged to be aware  of individual misfortune. There were plenty of people around us who  had suffered from the war long before America's involvement. 
我远离了战争的大部分恐怖。我母亲不让我听任何科林什和我父亲每天晚上听的新闻广播。由于担心未来充满不确定性，她希望我的童年能尽可能长时间地正常快乐。与此同时，我被鼓励去意识到个人的不幸。我们周围有很多人早在美国介入之前就饱受战争之苦。

    One day while we were in Hollywood, I was invited by myself  to the Ingelmans' for lunch. There I met another guest, a large and  very morose French painter called Guy Ignon. I learned that he was a  refugee from France who had jumped ship in New York and swum  ashore, miraculously making his way to the West Coast. John and  Hilda Ingelman were trying to help him get papers and work, for he  was practically starving. Gloomy as he was, I took an instant liking  to him or perhaps felt it was in the tradition of our family to invite  such a person home to tea, which I did. He may have been somewhat  surprised at a very formally presented invitation from a nine-year-old  girl, but he did show up the next afternoon and my parents took him on.  They introduced him to the Vigevenos who, though recent immigrants  themselves, had already established a successful art gallery in West Los  Angeles. Ignon's fortunes changed from then on and he always looked  on me as his little mascot. He painted my portrait, which my mother  bought although she never liked it, for Ignon had painted me with  enormous eyes holding all the suffering in his own heart and more  besides. Even after he married a lovely young wife and had a son, he  still looked morose. 

当我们在好莱坞的时候，有一天我被邀请去英格尔曼家吃午饭。在那里，我遇到了另一位客人，他是一位身材高大、性格阴沉的法国画家，名叫盖伊・尼翁。我得知他是一个从法国来的难民，在纽约跳船上岸，奇迹般地来到了西海岸。约翰和希尔达・英格曼正设法帮他弄到证件和工作，因为他几乎快饿死了。尽管他闷闷不乐，我还是立刻喜欢上了他，也许是觉得邀请这样的人回家喝茶是我们家的传统，我也这么做了。他可能对一个9岁女孩发出的非常正式的邀请有些惊讶，但第二天下午他确实出现了，我父母接受了他。他们把他介绍给维格韦诺斯一家，他们虽然是新移民，但已经在西洛杉矶建立了一家成功的艺术画廊。从那时起，尼翁的命运发生了变化，他总是把我当作他的小吉祥物。他给我画了肖像，我母亲买了下来，虽然她从来不喜欢，因为尼翁给我画的是一双巨大的眼睛，里面藏着他心中所有的痛苦，还有更多的痛苦。即使在他娶了一位年轻可爱的妻子并生了一个儿子之后，他仍然显得郁郁寡欢。

    In spring 1940 my grandmother Sophia died. She had just undergone a  successful gall bladder operation and was recovering well in the hospital  when her doctor went off duty and forgot to warn the staft that she was  fatally allergic to certain medicines. When these were inadvertently given  to her, she instantly declined. With the doctor's permission, Rosalind  took her home to Gower Street, where she and Erma nursed her until  her death a few weeks later. During this time Aldous and Maria came  every morning and sat quietly in the living-room, not expecting to visit  or talk but just giving her their quiet support. 

1940年春天，我的祖母索菲亚去世了。她刚刚接受了一次成功的胆囊手术，在医院恢复得很好，这时她的医生下班了，忘记提醒工作人员她对某些药物有致命的过敏。当这些东西无意中送给她时，她立即拒绝了。在医生的允许下，罗莎琳德把她带回了高尔街的家，在那里她和埃尔玛一直照顾她，直到几周后她去世。在这段时间里，奥多斯和玛丽亚每天早上都来，安静地坐在客厅里，不期待拜访或交谈，只是默默地支持她。

    Erma describes this time in her diary: 
    We are really going through a great experience, and Theosophically  speaking, Mother must have some pretty good karma since she looks  very beautiful in her fading gradually and when the release comes she  will have doubtless been separated from all the denser matter and be  fully released just as we would all like to be. Dr Norris seems very  pleased with Rosalind and me for the way we are taking care of her,  since she is kept immaculately clean ⌒ and we have established a quiet peace in the house, it is almost like a sanctuary now, so all is well in  accordance with our beliefs ⌒ if we may call our ideas that. 
Erma在她的日记中描述了这段时间:
我们真的在经历一个伟大的经历，从通神学的角度来说，母亲一定有一些相当好的业力，因为她在逐渐消逝的时候看起来很漂亮，当解脱到来的时候，她无疑已经从所有稠密的物质中分离出来，像我们都希望的那样完全解脱了。诺里斯医生似乎对我和罗莎琳德照顾她的方式很满意，因为她一直保持着一尘不染的清洁，我们在房子里建立了一个安静的环境，现在它几乎就像一个避难所，所以一切都很好，符合我们的信念――如果我们可以这样称呼我们的想法的话。

    Erma always managed to balance gracefully between Theosophy and  Krinsh. 
埃尔玛总是能在神智学和克里什语之间保持优雅的平衡。

    I was at school in Ojai the day my grandmother died. I remember  suddenly putting my head down on my desk and knowing she was  gone. When my mother came to tell me I said I already knew. I felt  her loss keenly for in her last years my grandmother had put her whole  focus on me and given me, among other things, her love of music.  After her death Christmastime was never again the special occasion  it had been while she was alive, for it was the one time of year she  came to Ojai. My mother and I, David, my aunts and Willie would  stand around the piano, which my grandmother still played beautifully  despite the arthritis in her hands, and would sing Christmas carols. My  grandmother sometimes inspired Willie to sing ?°The Ode to Joy' from  Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, remembered from his youth when he  sang in the chorus of the Vienna Opera. Of course, Erma's lovely  contralto added much to these occasions. I had heard of the musical  evenings in Buffalo and, despite the richness of interests and people  in our lives, I still missed being part of a musical world. It was  gone completely when my grandmother died. No one could play the  piano. Krinsh disliked the very idea of Christmas and made us all quite  uncomfortable about it; and all the underlying tensions in our house  seemed to be squeezed to the surface by this now empty celebration. 
我祖母去世的那天，我在欧康的学校。我记得我突然把头靠在桌子上，知道她已经走了。当我妈妈来告诉我的时候，我说我已经知道了。我深深感到她的离去，因为在她生命的最后几年里，她把全部的注意力都放在了我身上，给了我很多东西，其中包括她对音乐的热爱。她死后，圣诞节再也不像她活着时那样特别了，因为这是她一年中唯一一次来欧康。母亲和我、大卫、姑姑们和威利会围着钢琴唱圣诞颂歌。尽管祖母手上有关节炎，但她的钢琴弹得仍然很漂亮。奶奶有时会启发威利唱贝多芬第九交响曲中的《欢乐颂》，这是他年轻时在维也纳歌剧院合唱时的回忆。当然，埃尔玛可爱的女低音为这些场合增加了很多。我听说过布法罗的音乐之夜，尽管我们的生活中有丰富的兴趣和朋友，但我仍然怀念成为音乐世界的一部分。当我祖母去世时，它就完全消失了。没有人会弹钢琴。克林什不喜欢圣诞节，他让我们大家都觉得很不舒服。我们家所有潜在的紧张似乎都被这个空洞的庆祝活动挤到了表面上。

    But what Krinsh lacked in Christmas spirit he made up for in small  daily rituals; the early morning flowers for my mother and the single  beautiful rose, fragrant with morning dew, on her birthdays. He told  me one should never smell a lower before it 1s given in order not to  detract anything from it. 
    Robert, sensing Rosalind's fatigue after Sophia's death, wrote to her  in May 1940. 
    [ am adding $100 to the check so that you and Radha can go to Sequoia 
    or Yosemite or somewhere for a couple of weeks of change and rest; 
    you certainly need it and must have it. 
    With much love, 
    ROBERT 
但是，克林什在圣诞节精神上的不足，他用日常的小仪式来弥补;清晨的鲜花送给我的母亲，在她生日的时候，一朵美丽的玫瑰，散发着晨露的芬芳。他告诉我，在礼物送出之前，千万不要闻它，以免影响它的味道。
罗伯特在索菲亚死后感觉到罗莎琳德的疲惫，于1940年5月写信给她。
我要在支票上加100美元，这样你和拉达就可以去红杉了
或者约塞米蒂国家公园，或者别的什么地方，换换环境，休息几周;
你当然需要它，而且必须拥有它。
带着满满的爱，
罗伯特。

    My father also recognized how tired she was; in June he took us to  Sequoia National Park, in the High Sierras, in his Ford. As we entered  the park we saw a bear in the middle of the road. To my surprise and my father's distress, when I offered her a piece of chewing gum, she  showed her lack of appreciation by leaving a deep claw mark on the  running board. The wild park animals in those days had not yet been  spoiled by human beings, although feeding bears was forbidden as we  were soon told. This was the beginning of annual summer treks to  Sequoia, which continued through the war years. 
父亲也看得出她有多累;六月，他开着他的福特车带我们去了高山脉的红杉国家公园。当我们进入公园时，我们看到路中间有一只熊。令我惊讶和父亲苦恼的是，当我递给她一块口香糖时，她在跑步板上留下了深深的爪痕，以示不感激。那时候公园里的野生动物还没有被人类糟蹋，虽然我们很快就被告知禁止喂熊。这是每年夏天前往红杉的徒步旅行的开始，这种旅行一直持续到战争年代。

    In 1940 an early autumn gathering had been planned at Sarobia. My  mother went with Krinsh, this time leaving me in Ojai as I was about  to start attending the private and progressive Ojai Valley School. My  father was left alone in charge of me with Mrs Kaarna, our cook. It  was a happy time for me, but must have been hard for him. 
1940年，他们计划在萨罗比亚举行早秋聚会。我母亲和克林什一起去了，这次把我留在了奥康，因为我即将开始在私立的、进步的奥康山谷学校上学。我父亲和我们的厨师卡尔娜太太独自照顾我。这对我来说是一段快乐的时光，但对他来说一定很艰难。

    Shortly after her return to California Rosalind wrote to Blanche: 
    Dearest Blanche,  Raja looks thin and tired as he is working hard . . . Since being home  I have had Radha three weeks in bed with the flu and [ have never seen  her so ill before. It is the first time I have ever had to call a doctor in  for her. Over six hundred people in Ojai had the flu. Krishnaji was  in bed a week with a slight bronchial disturbance and I have never  seen him in bed for over a day or so before. They are perfectly well  again and chipper than ever . . . 
回到加州后不久，罗莎琳德给布兰奇写信说:
亲爱的布兰奇，拉贾看起来又瘦又累，因为他正在努力工作…自从回家后，我已经带着拉达在床上躺了三个星期了，我从来没有见过她病得这么厉害。这是我第一次为她请医生。欧康有六百多人得了流感。克里希那吉因为轻微的支气管疾病在床上躺了一个星期，我以前从未见过他躺在床上超过一天左右。他们又恢复得很好，比以前更爽朗了……

    Rosalind's comment about Krishna's health is interesting in view of  the continual health problems he was said to have in his earlier days.  Actually he was very sound in those years and almost never caught colds  or flu, suffering only from allergies that caused some minor swelling  around his eyes and occasional coughing. 
罗莎琳德对克里希纳健康状况的评论很有趣，因为据说他早年一直有健康问题。实际上，那几年他身体非常健康，几乎从未患过感冒或流感，只是有过敏症状，导致眼睛周围轻微肿胀，偶尔咳嗽。

    One day while my mother and Krinsh were still at Sarobia I looked out of  the dining-room window, which opened on to a long verandah running  the full length of the house. There I saw pacing up and down, a giant. |  ran to Mrs Kaarna who, since she believed in fairies should know if this  were indeed a giant. We called my father who let him in and discovered  that he was only the very tall husband of Iris Tree. Iris, along with this  husband, Count Frederick Ledebur, her son Christian and the whole  Chekhov troupe of actors who came with her to Ojai (many of them  pacifists, like Iris), would add a new dimension to our lives, particularly  my mother's and mine. They became a part of our lives separate from  Krinsh (who always acted slightly disapprovingly of Iris). Although Iris,  like the rest of our greater circle, faithfully attended his talks, Krinsh was  not the reason that Iris and her crowd had settled in Ojai. They had their  own very full and colourful lives and soon started a repertory theatre. 
一天，母亲和克林什还在萨罗比亚的时候，我从餐厅的窗户往外看，窗外是一条长长的走廊，贯穿整座房子。我看见一个巨人在那里踱来踱去。我跑去找卡尔娜太太，因为她相信仙女的存在，她应该知道这是不是一个巨人。我们打电话给我父亲，他让他进来，发现他只是虹膜树的高个子丈夫。Iris和她的丈夫，Frederick Ledebur伯爵，她的儿子Christian，以及和她一起来到欧康的整个契诃夫剧团的演员(他们中很多人都像Iris一样是和平主义者)，为我们的生活增添了一个新的维度，尤其是我母亲和我的生活。他们成为了我们生活的一部分，与克林什(他总是对艾瑞斯表现出些许不满)分开。虽然爱瑞丝和我们圈子里的其他人一样，忠实地参加了他的演讲，但克林什并不是爱瑞丝和她的同伴们在欧康定居下来的原因。他们有自己丰富多彩的生活，不久就开办了一个保留剧目剧团。

   Familiar as we were with Hollywood, live theatre was for me a new  and wonderful experience. Iris Tree had been born to it. Her father,  Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree was knighted for his greatness as an actor  and was particularly famous for his portrayal of Malvolio in Twelfth  Night. Queen Victoria, as she touched her sword to his shoulder, had  repeated the lines from that play: ?(r)Some are born great, some achieve  greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.?± Thanks to the  Chekhov players, Ojai would be favoured for many years with first-rate  performances of Shakespeare, Chekhov, and many other classic plays.  Iris would also give wonderful parties, to which Charlie Chaplin and  other movie actors came. 
虽然我们对好莱坞很熟悉，但现场戏剧对我来说是一种全新而美妙的体验。虹膜树就是为此而生的。她的父亲赫伯特・比尔博姆・特里爵士因其出色的演技而被授予爵士爵位，尤其因其在《第十二夜》中扮演的马伏里奥而闻名。维多利亚女王用剑抵着他的肩膀，重复着那出戏里的台词:“有些人生来伟大，有些人成就伟大，有些人是被强加的伟大。”±由于契诃夫的演员，欧康在许多年里都受到了莎士比亚、契诃夫和许多其他经典戏剧的一流演出的青睐。Iris还会举办精彩的派对，查理・卓别林和其他电影演员都会来参加。

    Maria and Aldous had been old friends of Iris's in England and  had sent her to see us when she thought of settling in California. In  Rosalind's absence, it fell to Raja to help Iris. He had already disrupted  his usual routine to take care of me but, as we can see from the following  letter, he found time to effectively help Iris. It was typical of him to take  considerable pains in such instances, in ways of which few people were  ever aware. 
玛丽亚和奥多斯是爱里斯在英国的老朋友，当她想在加利福尼亚定居时，就派她来看我们。罗莎琳德不在的时候，帮助爱瑞丝的任务落到了拉贾身上。为了照顾我，他已经打乱了他的日常工作，但从下面的信中我们可以看到，他抽出时间有效地帮助了Iris。在这种情况下，他总是煞费苦心，这是他的典型特点，而很少有人意识到这一点。

    Dear Mr Rajagopal, 
    It was so kind of you to have taken such trouble about me and the house and I am most grateful. Please forgive me for having bothered you with it all when you  are so busy with many things. But I loved the place and was relieved to get settled with the boy there ⌒ always, having set one's heart, it is hard to turn it away again . . . perhaps Mrs Grey (sic) will soften about the dog. It was a great pleasure to have met you and I thank you for all your hospitality and courtesy . . . 
    : -Yours sincerely, 
    IRIS TREE 
亲爱的Rajagopal先生:
你真是太好了，为我和房子这么费心，我非常感激。请原谅我在你这么忙的时候给你添麻烦。但是我很喜欢这个地方，和那个男孩在那里定居下来让我松了一口气，因为一个人已经下定决心了，就很难再把它赶走了…也许格雷太太对那条狗的态度会缓和下来。很高兴见到你，感谢你的款待和礼貌…
你诚挚的，
虹膜树

    Iris had fine blonde hair cut in a page-boy style which she rinsed  with carrot juice to preserve its colour. She had large violet eyes  and a mischievous smile. She could mimic anything from an egret  to Maria Huxley's charming, heavily inflected Belgian accent. Iris  never mimicked people to their faces, as she said that would make  them self-conscious. Neither did she ever mimic Krinsh in front of  us, although I suspect she often had a good time over that too. 
艾瑞斯有一头漂亮的金发，剪成小男孩的发型，她用胡萝卜汁冲洗头发，以保持头发的颜色。她有一双紫罗兰色的大眼睛，带着淘气的微笑。她能模仿任何东西，从白鹭到玛丽亚・赫胥黎(Maria Huxley)迷人的、严重变形的比利时口音。艾瑞斯从不当着别人的面模仿他们，因为她说那样会让他们感到难为情。她也从来没有在我们面前模仿克林什，尽管我怀疑她也经常玩得很开心。

    While my father enjoyed her company he found her extremely  unfastidious habits distressing. He was once prevailed upon by my  mother to give Iris a ride back to Ojai from Los Angeles. She often  travelled with an array of animals. He met her on the designated street corner never suspecting, until it was too late, that he would also have  to transport a large Nubian goat in the jump seat of his tiny, pristine  Ford Coup¨. 
艾瑞斯有一头漂亮的金发，剪成小男孩的发型，她用胡萝卜汁冲洗头发，以保持头发的颜色。她有一双紫罗兰色的大眼睛，带着淘气的微笑。她能模仿任何东西，从白鹭到玛丽亚・赫胥黎(Maria Huxley)迷人的、严重变形的比利时口音。艾瑞斯从不当着别人的面模仿他们，因为她说那样会让他们感到难为情。她也从来没有在我们面前模仿克林什，尽管我怀疑她也经常玩得很开心。

    Iris was a creative cook and willing to serve up delicious vegetarian  fare, but her kitchen left something to be desired. Displayed in casual  array on the shelves and counters were open cans of cat and dog food,  paint, unwashed dishes and Iris's latest poem. At one dinner my father  found himself half-way through his spaghetti, which he had been politely  swallowing in spite ofa bitterness that he could not identify. Suddenly,  Iris remarked with a hearty laugh that she must have used linseed oil as  she was refinishing her desk and had poured it into the olive oil bottle.  It was some time before he could be prevailed upon to return there for  dinner. 
Iris是一个有创意的厨师，愿意提供美味的素食菜肴，但她的厨房留下了一些需要改进的地方。货架和柜台上随意摆放着打开的猫粮和狗粮罐头、油漆、没洗过的盘子和艾瑞斯最新写的诗。有一次吃饭时，父亲发现他的意大利面吃了一半，他一直在礼貌地吞着，尽管他尝不出有什么苦味。突然，艾瑞斯大笑着说，她一定是在擦桌子的时候用了亚麻籽油，把它倒进了橄榄油瓶里。过了好一会儿，他才被说服回来吃晚饭。

    Iris generously gave me a puppy from the litter of her rare and  beautiful white German shepherds. This was to comfort me for the  loss of my first dog Jerry-bo, given by Maria and named by Aldous.  Jerry-bo had run off and disappeared while we were living in Molly  Berkeley's house. 
Iris慷慨地给了我一只小狗，从她那一窝稀有而美丽的白色德国牧羊犬中挑选出来。这是为了安慰我失去了我的第一只狗杰里博，它是玛丽亚给我的，是奥多斯给它取名的。我们住在莫利・伯克利家的时候，杰瑞博跑掉了。

    My pets were still a perpetual problem; trips to either Sequoia, Santa  Barbara or Hollywood made care of them difficult, although geese,  ducks, possums, skunks and chipmunks had all proved easier to handle  than a dog. Aldous named the German shepherd puppy Babs (after  Elizabeth Barrett Browning). When barely full grown, she ran on to  the road in front of Arya Vihara and was hit by a motor-cycle. My  screams and her howls of pain brought Krinsh and my mother running.  Krinsh then demonstrated his own considerable physical courage and  fortitude, for he allowed the poor dog to comfort itself by gnawing  on his fist. Babs.,was taken to the pet hospital and put into a traction  harness in the hope of restoring the use of her back legs. As always at  such moments, Mr Robbie offered to help. 
我的宠物仍然是一个永恒的问题;尽管鹅、鸭、负鼠、臭鼬和花栗鼠都被证明比狗更容易对付，但去红杉、圣巴巴拉或好莱坞的旅行都让照顾它们变得困难。奥尔多斯给这只德国牧羊犬取名巴布斯(以伊丽莎白・巴雷特・勃朗宁的名字命名)。刚长大的时候，她跑到艾莉亚・维哈拉门前的路上，被一辆摩托车撞了。我的尖叫和她痛苦的嚎叫把克林什和我母亲吓跑了。然后，克林什表现出了自己相当大的勇气和毅力，因为他让这只可怜的狗咬他的拳头来安慰自己。巴布丝。她被送到宠物医院，拴上牵引带，希望能恢复后腿的活动能力。像往常一样，罗比先生在这种时刻主动提出帮忙。

    June 1st, 1941 
    Dearest Rozzie, 
    The extra $75 on the enclosed check is to help out . . . with the Sequoia cabins or with the hospital expenses for Babs or whatever you think best. 
    Please write once in a while and let me know how you all are and about poor Babs and Krishnaji's visa etc, etc. After all, you know, you are about the only ?(r)family' I have left. 
    Much love, 
    ROBERT 
1941年6月1日
亲爱的Rozzie,
随信附上的支票上额外的75美元是用来帮助……红杉小屋或者芭芭丝的医疗费或者任何你认为最好的。
请偶尔给我写信，让我知道你们过得怎么样，还有关于可怜的Babs和Krishnaji的签证等等。毕竟，你知道，你大概是我唯一剩下的亲人了。
太多的爱,
罗伯特。


    (One of the persistent problems that Raja had throughout the war years was renewing Krishna's visa which he did successfully, though sometimes needing some influential help.)  Krishna, my mother and I went off to Sequoia as usual that summer, as Babs would be confined to the hospital for some time. Iris followed     us with her entourage soon after writing this letter: 
(在整个战争年代，拉贾一直遇到的一个问题是为克里希纳续签签证，他成功地做到了，尽管有时需要一些有影响力的帮助。)那年夏天，克里希纳、母亲和我像往常一样去了红杉，因为芭布斯要住院一段时间。写完这封信后不久，Iris带着她的随从跟着我们:

    Ojai 17.V1.41 
    Dearest Rosalind, 
    Late night in our valley, just home. The rivers are drying up and  the green is burning, but there are still flowers on my estate and geese  in yours. I think of you all with joy, Hollywood was Babylon and  ?(r)deletante living'?± without thought or love. 
奥吉17. v1.41
亲爱的罗莎琳德,
深夜在我们的山谷，刚回家。河流干涸了，绿色在燃烧，但我的庄园里还有花，你的庄园里还有鹅。我想到你们都很高兴，好莱坞是巴比伦，(r) deleteante活着?没有思想或爱。

    Party at Marion Davis in the gold and white Versaille they built  for her on sand . . . poor little milkmaid, calling her guests in like  cows to the stable, does she care if she is watched by Greuzes and  Gainsboroughs? Champagne, Venetian goblets, gossip, decay and  furtive terror with the waves beating so near ⌒ But who am I to  preach, for there I sat enjoying my superior feelings . . . ah well . what else? ⌒ Earl Carrols vanities. Ninety naked ladies of exactly  the same pattern in patriotic brassieres, smiling and kicking in perfect  time to a deafening orchestra while the audiance watches and eats and  drinks at the same time. So there is progress . . . whatelse? . . . nothing  beautiful or gay? yes, the Gipsies, the fiddle, that forgives everything . what an exquisite instrument, what companionship between it  and the player and the listener what concentration set free into what  ease and joy ⌒ 
在沙滩上为她建造的金色和白色的凡尔赛宫里，在马里昂・戴维斯举办派对…可怜的挤牛奶的小女工，把客人像牛叫进马厩一样叫进来，难道她在乎格罗兹和盖恩斯博罗的看守吗?香槟、威尼斯高脚杯、流言蜚语、腐朽和暗无天日的恐惧，海浪拍打得如此近，但我有什么资格说教，因为我坐在那里享受着我的优越感……好吧。还有什么？厄尔・卡罗尔的虚荣。90个穿着爱国主义胸罩的裸女，在震耳欲聋的管弦乐队的伴奏下，微笑着踢着脚，完美地配合着时间，而观众一边观看一边吃喝。所以是有进展的……whatelse吗?……没有美丽或同性恋?是的，吉普赛人，小提琴，原谅一切。多么精致的乐器，它与演奏者和听者之间是多么的亲密，多么的专注，多么的轻松和快乐

    I have no fiddle and the typewriter wont spell. This is the season  of thc ants. 
    On saturday maybe I shall go look for you in the big trees, bringing  Boon and the dogs and so much love. Please don't have gone and  don't be disturbed and at the same time don't have forgotten me  ... I hope you like it all and are happy. If you see a cabin please  tell it to wait. 
我没有小提琴，打字机也不会拼写。这是蚂蚁的季节。
星期六，也许我会带着布恩和狗，带着那么多的爱，到大树里去找你。请不要离开，不要打扰，同时也不要忘记我……我希望你喜欢这一切，快乐。如果你看到客舱，请让它等一等。

    Yours,  IRIS 
    P.S. Babs is a little better.  The arrival of Iris and her family was a welcome change for me. Now  instead of playing by myself all morning, reading or feeding chipmunks  and deer, I had friends who would take me along on their horseback  rides, make lovely camp-fire picnics with Iris's antics and mimics and  pantomimes for entertainment. And there was her son Chris (Boon),  older than me, but never showing impatience at being trailed after by  a pigtailed ten year old. : 
你的,虹膜
附言:巴布斯好一点。爱瑞丝和她的家人的到来对我来说是一个可喜的变化。现在，我不再一个人玩一整个上午，看书或喂花栗鼠和鹿，我有了朋友，他们会带我一起骑马，用爱瑞斯的滑稽动作、模仿和哑戏来做可爱的篝火野餐。还有她的儿子克里斯・布恩(Chris Boon)，比我大，但对一个梳着辫子的十岁孩子的跟踪从不表现出不耐烦。：

    There were also, each summer, one or more devotees; single ladies  who discreetly took a cabin far from us and were content to get one  daily glimpse of Krinsh as he walked to the village for the mail. Peeking  from under his large straw hat, I could see he knew they were there  watching, but he never acknowledged them for he was supposed to  be in retreat. For Iris and the Huxleys and certain friends ?(r)retreat' was  modified, although no one ever dared be quite as funny or naughty  when Krinsh was around, even Iris. 
每年夏天，还有一个或多个信徒;单身女士们，她们小心翼翼地在离我们很远的地方找了个小木屋，每天在克林什去村里送信的时候看他一眼就满足了。我从他的大草帽下面看到，他知道他们在那里监视着，但他从来没有向他们打招呼，因为他应该在撤退。对艾里斯、赫胥黎夫妇和某些朋友来说，“撤退”的说法被修改了，尽管当克林什在身边时，没有人敢像艾里斯那样有趣或淘气。

    After we had gone back to Ojai, Iris stayed on and wrote: 
    Goodbye and greetings to you ⌒ come back soon to the trees ⌒ they  are dark now, full of shadows and bears and its a bit homeless in our  village of one-night-cabins all about to start down hill 
我们回到欧康后，爱瑞丝留下来写道:
再见，向你问好，很快回到树林里，它们现在已经很黑了，到处都是阴影和熊，在我们的村子里，一晚的小屋有点无家可归，所有人都要下山了

    How 1s it in the valley and what did you take down with you?  -you left a lot up here ⌒ food and tasks and many things not on  the list - 
山谷里的情况如何，你带了什么?-你在这里留下了很多食物和任务，还有很多东西不在清单上

   Come back to the rivers ⌒  Come back to the meadows  they will spring green again,  leap again ⌒ flower, faun,  waterfall ⌒ come  back to the trees,  light silence, murmuring bird ⌒  But wherever you are  it all goes with you ⌒  from the tops of the hills ⌒ whether you  come back or not ⌒ and  love from us. 
回到河流的怀抱，回到草地的怀抱，它们会再次绿起来，再次跳跃，花儿，农牧神，瀑布，回到树林，阳光，寂静，鸟儿在低语，无论你身在何处，无论你是否回来，我们的爱都会从山顶上陪伴着你。

    IRIS 
    When we returned to Ojai we found poor Babs had not improved, but  she quietly died before the decision had to be made to put her down. 
    Before there was any certainty of America entering the war, Rosalind  had arranged with a friend in England to send over thirty British orphans  whom she planned to care for at the unused Star camp buildings until the war was over. Just how was not totally laid out, but would have been  dealt with no doubt with her usual practicality. At the last minute, with  the orphans nearly aboard and papers and sailing all arranged for, the  British government cancelled the project, deciding the voyage would  be more hazardous for the children than remaining in England. Rosalind  then diverted her efforts to producing food for our household and a good  part of our immediate community of friends and fellow pacifists so, as  much as possible, to be self-supporting and no burden on the world's  food supply. 
虹膜
当我们回到欧康时，我们发现可怜的芭芭丝并没有好转，但在必须做出安乐死的决定之前，她静静地死了。
在美国参战的消息还没有确定之前，罗莎琳德和一位在英国的朋友安排了三十多名英国孤儿，她计划在战争结束前，把这些孤儿送到闲置的“星星”营地照顾。至于怎么做，她并没有完全安排好，但毫无疑问，她会以一贯的务实态度来处理。在最后一刻，孤儿们几乎都上船了，文件和航行也都安排好了，英国政府取消了这个计划，认为对孩子们来说，航行比留在英国更危险。然后，罗莎琳德把她的精力转移到为我们的家庭以及我们的朋友和和平主义者的大部分直接社区生产食物上，这样，尽可能地自给自足，不给世界粮食供应带来负担。

    Life soon became nothing but heavy work, particularly for my  mother, with Krinsh and me helping a great deal. We bought a gentle,  tame cow which I named lolanthe. Willie showed us how to milk  her after extracting a promise that he would not have any further  involvement. He alone knew what having a cow meant. He also warned  and was proved right that it would cost more to feed that one cow than  to buy milk in the store. But cost was not the chief object and even  Willie did not know then how welcome her butter and cheese would  be in the coming period of rationing. There was a plentiful vegetable  garden, all planted according to the latest US Department of Agriculture  pamphlets. Rosalind had sent for these, along with instructions on cheese  making and dairy procedures. We had beehives from which we extracted  honey. Every summer the fresh fruit was dried under screens on the  roof and sent along with other produce through the agency of CARE  to Europe. There was endless canning of tomatoes, beans and fruit.  Fortunately for Iolanthe, Krinsh developed an allergy to her for she  didn't like the feel of his chronically icy fingers and would turn her  head around to glare at him and invariably plop her foot in the milk  pail. So milking was out of the question for him; instead he gathered  the cowpats and tossed them on the compost heap and hosed out the  barn in his high rubber boots. My mother and Krinsh worked the  vegetable garden together. We even tried a hydroponic garden which  an Indian friend of ours, called Sharma, had just developed for the US  Navy. Krinsh was supposedly spending most of his day in retreat but  actually he seemed to prefer, or felt an obligation, to hang about my  mother during the long hours of heavy work. [ milked the cow every  morning before breakfast and then again before dinner. Although I went  to a private school, I took the public school bus and Krinsh never failed  to walk with me to the road where the bus stopped. He waited discreetly  behind the rock wall until he saw me safely oft. When the bus returned  me 1in the afternoon I watched the tip of his straw hat moving along  behind the wall until I met him at the driveway. He never embarrassed me by showing himself, nor did he upset my sense of independence by  making me feel his presence was anything but companionable. Krinsh  always took an afternoon walk when there wasn't a badminton game  on. He tried to coerce my exhausted mother into going along and  sometimes we all went with the cow in tow. She liked to graze along  the road in the grassy season and this saved on the cost of alfalfa. Maria  and Aldous turned up one day with a large barrel-shaped butter churn.  Thereafter, making butter became a regular routine. Frieda Lawrence  sent an encouraging letter: 

生活很快就变成了繁重的工作，尤其是对我母亲来说，我和克林什帮了很多忙。我们买了一头温顺的母牛，我给它起名叫萝兰。威利向我们展示了如何从她那里榨取牛奶，他保证不再参与其中。只有他知道养牛意味着什么。他还警告说，喂一头牛比在商店里买牛奶要贵，事实证明他是对的。不过，价格并不是主要的问题，就连威利当时也不知道，在即将到来的配给时期，她的黄油和奶酪会受到多大的欢迎。那里有一个很大的菜园，所有的蔬菜都是按照美国农业部最新的小册子种植的。罗莎琳德寄来了这些东西，还有奶酪制作和乳制品流程的说明。我们有蜂箱，从中提取蜂蜜。每年夏天，新鲜的水果在屋顶上的纱窗下晒干，并通过CARE机构与其他农产品一起运往欧洲。那里有无数的西红柿、豆类和水果罐头。对Iolanthe来说幸运的是，Krinsh对她产生了过敏，因为她不喜欢他长期冰冷的手指的感觉，她会转过头来盯着他，总是把脚伸进牛奶桶里。所以挤奶对他来说是不可能的;相反，他把牛聚集在一起，扔到堆肥堆上，然后穿着高胶靴用水管冲洗谷仓。我母亲和克林什一起在菜园里干活。我们甚至尝试了一个水培花园，这是我们的印度朋友夏尔马刚刚为美国海军开发的。按理说，克林什一天的大部分时间都是在隐居中度过的，但实际上，他似乎更愿意，或者觉得有义务，在长时间繁重的工作中陪在我母亲身边。他每天早上在早餐前挤牛奶，然后在晚餐前再挤一次。虽然我上的是私立学校，但我乘坐的是公立校车，而克林什总是陪我走到校车停的地方。他在岩壁后小心翼翼地等着，直到把我安全送走。下午公共汽车回来的时候，我看着他的草帽尖在墙后移动，直到我在车道上遇见他。他从来没有因为露面而让我感到尴尬，也没有因为让我觉得他不友好而破坏我的独立感。当下午没有羽毛球比赛时，克林什总是出去散步。他试图强迫我筋疲力尽的母亲一起去，有时我们都牵着奶牛一起去。她喜欢在草季的时候在路边吃草，这样可以省下买苜蓿的钱。有一天，玛丽亚和奥多斯带着一个大桶形黄油搅拌器出现了。从那以后，制作黄油就成了我的例行公事。弗里达・劳伦斯写了一封鼓舞人心的信:

    Dear Rosalind, 
    I want to send you my greetings because it is a pleasure to think  of you these days and all of you & your goodwill, when the world  is so full of bad will ⌒ 
亲爱的罗莎琳德,
我想向你致以我的问候，因为这些天想到你和你们所有人以及你们的善意是一种快乐，当这个世界充满恶意的时候

    A woman brought me the life of Krishnamurti by Ludowic Rebault  and I was so very interested in Krishna's fight with those dumb  theosophists! Always the same story! It reminded me so much of  Lawrence in another way ⌒ and the things Krishna says are much  like Lawrence. All big men have really the same ultimate source of  the vision, only each in his own individual way. 
一个女人给我带来了由Ludowic Rebault写的克里希那穆提的生活，我对克里希那与那些愚蠢的通神论者的斗争非常感兴趣!总是同样的故事!它从另一个角度让我想起了劳伦斯克里希纳说的也很像劳伦斯。所有的伟人都有相同的终极愿景，只是以自己的方式。

    Maria wrote some time ago that you made butter & it is a success.  I hope you are all well; it is a joy to think ofa child like Rhada [sic]  to have so much love. 
玛丽亚前段时间写信说你做了黄油，而且很成功。我希望你们都好;想到像Rhada这样的孩子能得到如此多的爱，真是一种快乐。

    My kindest greetings and wishes to you all ⌒  FRIEDA 
我向你们致以最诚挚的问候和最美好的祝愿

    Being a pacifist in that era was a considerably less popular position to  hold than it is today, especially when the fascist atrocities began to come  to light. When confronted with the question: what alternative to war is  there against such evil forces? the answer might be much the same as that  ofa doctor of preventative medicine being asked to cure a terminal lung  cancer patient. Solutions based on certain medical or moral philosophies  must begin at the source, before the disease has started and progressed to  a critical stage. The doctor would have told his patient to stop smoking  years before and the pacifist would be constantly alert to alleviating the  causes of war. Unfortunately those in power throughout the world are  seldom, if ever, pacifists. 
在那个时代，和平主义者远没有今天那么受欢迎，尤其是当法西斯暴行开始曝光的时候。当面对这样一个问题:除了战争还有什么可以对抗这些邪恶势力?这个问题的答案可能与一位预防医学医生被要求治愈一位晚期肺癌患者的答案大致相同。基于某些医学或道德哲学的解决方案必须从源头开始，在疾病开始并发展到关键阶段之前。医生会在几年前就告诉他的病人戒烟，和平主义者会时刻警惕减轻战争的原因。不幸的是，世界各地的当权者很少是和平主义者。

    Robert Logan and Aldous Huxley, on either side of the Atlantic, had  striven hard and eloquently to offer peaceful solutions to the alarming  rise of fascism in the early 1930s. They had very similar philosophies.  In his pamphlet Case for Constructive Peace, Aldous wrote in 1936: 
在20世纪30年代初，大西洋两岸的罗伯特・洛根(Robert Logan)和奥尔德斯・赫胥黎(Aldous Huxley)都曾努力而雄辩地提出和平解决法西斯主义惊人崛起的办法。他们有着非常相似的理念。1936年，奥尔道斯在他的小册子《建设性和平案例》中写道:

    War is a purely human phenomenon. Animals kill for food . . . fight  duels in the heat of sexual excitement . . . Man is unique in organizing  the murder of his own species. War is not a law of nature. The old  saw about the survival of the fittest is obviously nonsensical ⌒ active  warfare tends to eliminate the young and strong . . . aerial warfare  kills indiscriminately . . . 
战争纯粹是人类的现象。动物为了食物而杀戮…在性兴奋的热度下决斗…人类在组织谋杀同类方面是独一无二的。战争不是自然规律。“优胜劣汰”的古老观点显然是荒谬的，积极的战争往往会消灭年轻和强壮的人。空战滥杀无辜……

    The whole philosophy of constructive pacifism is based on a  consideration of the facts of personal relationship between man and  man. 
建设性和平主义的整个哲学是基于对人与人之间个人关系事实的考虑。

    There are men who profess to be pacifists in international  politics, but who are tyrants in their families, bullying employers,  or unscrupulous competitors . . . [It is not| possible for a government  to behave as a pacifist when the individuals it represents conduct  their affairs in an essentially militaristic way. Constructive peace  must be first of all a personal ethic . . . Means determine ends the only right and practical policy is one based on truth and  generosity. 
有些人在国际政治中自称是和平主义者，但在他们的家庭中却是暴君，欺凌雇主，或肆无忌惮的竞争对手……当政府所代表的个人以军国主义的方式处理事务时，政府就不可能像和平主义者那样行事。建设性的和平首先必须是个人的道德规范……手段决定结果，唯一正确和实用的政策是建立在真理和慷慨的基础上的。

    Aldous went on to lay out a practical plan through a conference of  the great powers to deal with Mussolini's aggression against Abyssinia  and to try to settle some of the injustices of the Versailles Treaty. After  which he continued: 
奥尔多斯接着通过大国会议制定了一个切实可行的计划，以应对墨索里尼对阿比西尼亚的侵略，并试图解决凡尔赛条约中的一些不公正问题。然后他接着说:

    The greatest immediate sacrifices . . . will have to come from those  who possess the most. These sacrifices, however will be negligible  in comparison with the sacrifices demanded from us by another war.  Negligible in comparison even with those which are at present being  demanded by the mere preparations for war. 
最大的直接牺牲……必须来自那些拥有最多的人。然而，与另一场战争要求我们作出的牺牲相比，这些牺牲是微不足道的。即使与目前仅仅为战争做准备所需要的那些相比，也微不足道。

    And with the full impact of his enormous eloquence, he concluded:  ?(r)One generous gesture on the part ofa great nation may be enough to  set the whole world free. 
他充分发挥了他那雄辩的口才，总结道:一个伟大国家的一个慷慨的姿态可能足以使整个世界获得自由。

    Ojai was to become a haven for pacifists during the war. There were  many faces of pacifism among us but Aldous, Mr Robbie and Krinsh  all believed that peace must be a clear issue within an individual before  he could publicly promote it. Also they recognized that during the fever  of war political pressure was no longer feasible. 
欧康在战争期间成为了和平主义者的避难所。我们中间有很多和平主义者，但奥多斯、罗比先生和克林什都认为，和平必须是一个人内心的一个明确问题，然后才能公开宣扬和平。他们也认识到，在战争白热化期间，政治压力已不再可行。

    Rosalind had her own very strong tradition of pacifism and was in  no sense simply following along with Aldous, Mr Robbie, or Krishna  when she wrote to Blanche her feelings about the darkening scene in  Europe. 
罗莎琳德有自己非常强烈的和平主义传统，在给布兰奇写信时，她绝不是单纯地追随奥尔多斯、罗比先生或克里希纳，她对欧洲日益黑暗的景象的感受。
 
      Dearest Blanche, 
    . . . I am so afraid of all the movements that are being started  to try and make peace in Europe. They seem to close our eyes  to the things that are happening here and might easily lead us  into war. Considering that we are supposed to be rank idealists  sound very realistic, don't you think? I think if some of the heads  of government were a little more realistic they would try and find  some other solution than war for their problems. People are so taken  up with the outside chaotic problems that they have no time to know  what living means . . . 
亲爱的布兰奇,
……我对所有试图在欧洲实现和平的运动感到非常害怕。他们似乎让我们对这里正在发生的事情视而不见，很容易把我们带入战争。考虑到我们应该是等级理想主义者听起来很现实，你不觉得吗?我认为，如果一些政府首脑更现实一点，他们就会尝试找到一些其他的解决方案，而不是战争。人们被外界混乱的问题所占据，以至于他们没有时间去了解生活的意义……

    The inevitability of war was coming ever closer, and again Rosalind  wrote to Blanche, her tone even bleaker than the year before. 
战争的必然性越来越近了，罗莎琳德再次给布兰奇写信，她的语气比前一年更加凄凉。

    Feb 14, 1941  Politically everything seems more and more confused and I wonder  if we will ever know the truth about anything? The more one tries  to have an open mind the more everything seems to go right through  it and one is left with nothing at all. One can't see very far ahead  can one? 
政治上的一切似乎越来越混乱，我想知道我们是否会知道任何事情的真相?一个人越是想要有一个开放的思想，一切似乎就越顺利，而他什么都没有留下。人是看不清前方的，不是吗?

    And then on 9 December 1941: ?(r)Now the conflagration is complete.  If you come out to the coast you had better come to us here. The  world is mad.' 
然后在1941年12月9日:(r)现在大火已经结束。如果你要到海边来，最好到我们这儿来。这个世界疯了。”

    Early in 1942 Raja sold the Star Trust office in Hollywood and moved  all the work to Ojai. Jon D. Davidson, the architect, who was designing  a house in Ojai for the Vigevenos, designed a small apartment for Raja  over an office and fireproof room situated in the orchard next to Krinsh's  Pine Cottage. Raja had no inclination to move into the m¨|nage at Arya  Vihara. He appeared only for dinner at the big house, never for lunch;  sometimes Krinsh took him a breakfast tray. 
1942年初，拉贾卖掉了好莱坞的明星信托公司，把所有的工作都搬到了奥康。建筑师乔恩・d・戴维森(Jon D. Davidson)当时正在奥哈伊为维格韦诺斯夫妇设计一栋房子，他为拉贾设计了一套小公寓，里面有一间办公室和防火室，位于果园里，紧挨着克里什的松树小屋。拉贾不打算搬进艾莉亚维哈拉的房间。他只在那所大房子里吃晚饭的时候出现，从来不吃午饭。有时，克林什给他端上早餐托盘。

    My father had always remained behind the scenes and seemingly  enjoyed that spot. But he had never liked being referred to as Krinsh's  secretary or manager. Neither did he like being asked by countless old  ladies what Krinsh ate, when he meditated and other personal details.  Nevertheless he had always shouldered this nuisance side of his life as  part of his work. 
父亲总是躲在幕后，似乎很喜欢那个地方。但他一直不喜欢别人把他称为克林什的秘书或经理。他也不喜欢被无数老太太问他吃什么、什么时候冥想以及其他个人细节。然而，他总是把生活中这令人讨厌的一面作为工作的一部分来承担。

    It was a bit much when he was blamed for Krinsh's misdemeanours.  Once my mother and 1 were having tea with an elderly lady in Santa  Barbara and Rosalind mentioned that Krishna had been caught speeding on the way down from Carmel. ?(r)Oh no!' she said, ?(r)It must have been  Rajagopal. It couldn't have been our dear Krishna.?± My father had not  even been in the car. Another incident that had particularly galled  Raja occurred a few years before in India. He and Krishna were being  accompanied to the airport by their very wealthy and elderly host,  who, as he said goodbye to Krishna, pressed into his hand a large  wad of money. Krishna dropped it on the ground as if it had been a  snake. He said, ?(r)I don't handle money, give it to Rajagopal,' leaving  it in the dust for someone else to pick up. 
当他因克林什的不端行为而受到指责时，这有点过分了。有一次，我和母亲在圣巴巴拉与一位老妇人喝茶，罗莎琳德提到克里希纳在从卡梅尔来的路上超速被抓。? (r)噢,不!她说，“那一定是拉贾戈帕尔。”不可能是我们亲爱的奎师那。我父亲甚至都没在车里。另一件让拉贾特别恼火的事发生在几年前的印度。陪同他和克里希纳去机场的是一位非常富有的老人，他向克里希纳告别时，手里攥着一大叠钱。奎师那把它扔在地上，好像它是一条蛇。他说:“(r)我不处理钱，把钱给拉贾戈帕尔吧。”他把钱留在尘土里，让别人去捡。

    Yet in spite of their quarrels, Raja's affection for Krishna never seemed  to waver. His isolation and pessimism increased, but everyone in our  circle seemed pessimistic in those war years. (Aldous would sometimes  arrive in such a state of gloom that Maria would beg us to leave off all  war talk for a few days.) Raja enjoyed much of that part of his life that  he could keep separate from Krishna and Rosalind. He was a person  who was most content when working and was fortified in this attitude  by Willie, who fully shared it. 
然而，尽管他们争吵不休，拉贾对奎师那的感情似乎从未动摇过。他越来越孤僻，越来越悲观，但在那些战争年代，我们圈子里的每个人似乎都很悲观。(奥多斯有时会带着忧郁的心情来到这里，玛丽亚会请求我们几天不要谈论战争。)拉贾很享受他生命中大部分可以与克里希纳和罗莎琳德分开的时光。他是一个在工作时最满足的人，威利也完全赞同他的这种态度，这使他更加坚定了这种态度。

    Willie Weidemann was probably the person closest to Raja, who had  taught Willie to do all the accounts and book work connected with  running the ranch and Star Publishing. He and Raja shared a similar  sense of humour, which included seeing American ways through the  eyes of the foreign born. They had many laughs over the latest popular  songs like ?(r)T've got spurs that jingle jangle jingle " and American idioms  and dialects. There was a couple called the Hawkins who had come out  from the dust bowl of Oklahoma. They helped with the orchard and the  housework. Both Raja and Willie soon adopted many of their phrases  like, ?(r)Everything's did that oughta be did', and ?(r)Go straight down there  and don't tyrn no whichaways.' 
威利・魏德曼可能是拉贾最亲近的人，他教威利做所有与经营牧场和明星出版社有关的账目和帐务工作。他和拉贾有着相似的幽默感，包括通过外国出生的人的眼睛来看待美国的方式。他们听着诸如“(r)我有马刺，叮当响叮当响”之类的最新流行歌曲和美国习语和方言，开怀大笑。有一对叫霍金斯的夫妇，他们来自俄克拉何马州的尘暴区。他们帮忙打理果园，做家务。拉贾和威利很快就接受了他们的许多短语，比如“该做的事都做了”，“该做的事都做了”，“该做的事都做了”。

    We still managed to get up to Sequoia, despite the petrol rationing  during the war. We only went to the village once a week and perhaps  once a month to Santa Barbara. Thus we saved enough coupons for  the one long drive to the Sierra. 
尽管战争期间实行汽油配给，我们还是设法到达了红杉。我们每周只去村里一次，也许一个月去一次圣巴巴拉。这样，我们就存下了足够的优惠券，以备长途驾车前往塞拉山。

    My father spent just a few days each summer at Sequoia, finding a  ride up and returning with us to Ojai. He was markedly not conforming  to Krinsh's quite rigid daily routines. He always had his own little cabin,  as did Krinsh, while my mother, David and I shared a bigger one where  we did the cooking. I would visit my father in his cabin every morning  and he read me the story of Amos or some other prophet or saga from  the Bible, probably because the Bible was provided by the Lodge and  there was nothing else to read except magazines with terrible war news,  from which I was protected. A few years later when the Modern Library  brought out a translation of Dostoevski's The Idiot, Krinsh brought it to  the mountains and, in turn, it kept us both busy. I lay on a fallen giant  sequoia near our cabin and read all morning, giving him the book in  the afternoon. ' 
父亲每年夏天只在红杉待几天，然后搭顺风车和我们一起回到奥康。他显然不遵守克林什严格的日常作息。他和克林什都有自己的小木屋，而我母亲、大卫和我则住在一间更大的屋子里做饭。我每天早上去他的小木屋看望父亲，他会给我读《圣经》里的阿摩司的故事或其他先知的故事，可能是因为《圣经》是分会提供的，除了刊登可怕的战争新闻的杂志外，我没有别的可读的，我被保护起来了。几年后，现代图书馆出版了陀思妥耶夫斯基《白痴》的译本，克林什把它带到了山里，反过来，我们俩都忙得不可开交。我躺在小屋附近一棵倒下的大红杉上，读了一上午书，下午把书给了他。”

    Each summer we took long walks in the High Sierra, capped by a  final strenuous hike for which we had spent our entire vacation getting  in condition. My father would arrive from QOjai a few days before  this exploit and refuse to get out of bed all day. Krinsh would do  all he could to persuade him to exercise, but without the least effect.  When the morning of the big hike came, my father was up and ready  with the rest of us. Much to our surprise and Krinsh's mixture of  annoyance and amusement, he beat us all to the top of the peak and  back (a twenty-mile round trip) without any evident ill effects, more  than could be said for the lot of us, including Krinsh. Whether he did  this deliberately to annoy or was just functioning on his own track we  never knew. 
每年夏天，我们都会在高山徒步旅行，最后是一次艰苦的徒步旅行，为此我们花了整个假期来锻炼身体。我父亲会在这次战役的前几天从QOjai回来，一整天都不肯起床。克林什想尽办法劝他去锻炼，可是一点效果也没有。当大远足的早晨到来时，我父亲已经起床，和我们其他人一起准备好了。令我们惊讶的是，他比我们所有人都先到达山顶，再返回(往返20英里)，没有任何明显的不良影响，这比我们大多数人都要好，包括克林什。我们不知道他是故意这样做的，还是只是按照自己的方式行事。

    One summer in Sequoia, a few days before we were going to leave,  we found a tanager with a broken wing. My mother crocheted a delicate  sling for her and very soon the little bird was so tame that she would sit  on our fingers and let us hold her up to the windowpane to snap up live  flies. We had to take her back to Ojai with us as her wing was still far  from mended. 
在红杉的一个夏天，在我们准备离开的前几天，我们发现了一个折断了翅膀的经理。妈妈给她织了一个精致的吊带，很快这只小鸟就变得很温顺了，它会坐在我们的手指上，让我们把它抱到窗玻璃上抓活苍蝇。我们不得不把她带回欧康，因为她的翅膀还远没有修好。

    Our habit was to leave late mid-afternoon to avoid the valley heat  and arrive in Ojail about ten at night. We usually carried a picnic  supper as Krinsh hated eating in restaurants, but this particular time  we had neglected to do so and were forced to stop at a little caf¨| in  Bakersficld. None of us, not even my father, noticed the sign on the  door which stated that the establishment reserved the right to refuse  service to anyone. We certainly looked no worse, in our blue jeans and  sneakers and with Krinsh in his straw hat trying not to be recognized,  than any of the other patrons of that rather grimy diner. We were taken  for migrant farmers or braceros, or whoever else the caf¨| owner decided  he had the right to refuse service to, and were asked, not very politely,  to leave. Even the little bird perched on my finger did not soften him.  Standing somewhat in shock outside the door, we heard a gentle voice  say, ?(r)I witnessed that. It is disgraceful and [ feel ashamed for my town.  insist that you let me take you all to a decent place for dinner.?± We could  hardly refuse and followed the man to a fancy restaurant with white  tablecloths which welcomed us, blue jeans, bird, vegetarianism and all.  It turned out, surprisingly enough, that even in Bakersfield Krinsh had  been recognized. 
我们的习惯是在下午晚些时候离开，以避开山谷的炎热，晚上10点左右到达奥贾尔。我们通常带着野餐晚餐，因为克林什讨厌在餐馆吃饭，但这次我们没有带，只好在贝克斯菲尔德的一家小咖啡馆停下来。我们谁也没有注意到，甚至我父亲也没有注意到门上的牌子，上面写着饭店有权拒绝为任何人提供服务。我们穿着蓝色牛仔裤和运动鞋，克林什戴着草帽，竭力不让人认出我们来，与这家相当肮脏的餐馆里的其他顾客相比，我们看上去并不差。我们被当成了外来务农者或墨西哥人，或者其他被咖啡馆老板认为有权拒绝服务的人，并被很不礼貌地要求离开。即使是停在我手指上的小鸟也没有使他软化。我们有点震惊地站在门外，听到一个温柔的声音说:“我目睹了那件事。”这是可耻的，我为我的城市感到羞耻。坚持让我带你们去一个体面的地方吃晚饭。我们几乎无法拒绝，跟着那个男人去了一家高级餐厅，白色桌布欢迎我们，蓝色牛仔裤，鸟，素食等等。令人惊讶的是，即使在贝克斯菲尔德，克林什也被认出来了。

    The little tanager became one of our most loved pets, and although  the wing never healed well enough for her to fly, she seemed to enjoy  her life in our care. Our cat Minnie exhibited extreme jealousy towards  the bird. We were careful to keep her locked in the house when we  had the bird outdoors. One afternoon Ignon, our French painter friend,  came for tea. He, among all our friends, had a special love for the bird.  Suddenly, out of nowhere, Minnie sprang, grabbed the bird and dashed  out of reach under the house. I was heartbroken; Ignon was so furious  he swore he would kill the cat if he could lay hands on her. Minnie  knew enough to keep out of sight for over a week. But she lost a great  deal of our affection. 
小经理人成了我们最喜欢的宠物之一，虽然她的翅膀一直没有康复到可以飞起来的程度，但她似乎很享受在我们照顾下的生活。我们的猫米妮对那只鸟表现出极度的嫉妒。当我们把鸟放在户外时，我们小心地把它锁在屋子里。一天下午，我们的法国画家朋友尼翁来喝茶。在我们所有的朋友中，他对这只鸟有一种特殊的爱。突然，敏妮不知从哪里窜了出来，抓起那只鸟，冲到房子下面够不着的地方。我心碎了;尼翁非常愤怒，他发誓如果他能抓住那只猫，他就杀了她。敏妮很清楚，她躲了一个多星期。但是她失去了我们很多的爱。

    Before the Japanese residents in California were interned, Rosalind had  ordered seventy-five newly hatched chicks, the last batch that would  be sexed as eggs by the Japanese, who were said to be the only people  with the ability to tell from the eggs which were to be hens and which  roosters. My mother, Krinsh and I drove to the train station in Ventura  late one night to pick up our precious cargo and brought the little chicks  home to the coop that Krinsh and Willie had built. There was not one  rooster in the batch. We soon found that a rooster was necessary to keep  peace among the hens and scare off the weasels. We added a big iridescent  black cock of the walk called Hercules. Every Saturday, Krinsh, David  and I scraped out the chicken coop. Krinsh seemed to take on the most  menial chores with a hearty enthusiasm. I collected the eggs and fed  the chickens and in the process made pets of all seventy-five hens and  Hercules, who dominated their lives. Several hens had a name from  Greek mythology, which I was studying in school at the time, and I  claimed to know each one by her voice. 
在加利福尼亚的日本居民被拘留之前，罗莎琳德订购了七十五只刚孵出的小鸡，最后一批将由日本人进行蛋的性别鉴定，据说日本人是唯一能够从蛋中分辨出哪些是母鸡，哪些是公鸡的人。一天深夜，我、妈妈和克林什开车去文图拉的火车站取我们珍贵的货物，把小鸡们带回了克林什和威利搭建的鸡笼里。那批鸡里一只也没有。我们很快发现一只公鸡是必要的，以保持母鸡之间的和平，并吓跑黄鼠狼。我们在人行道上增加了一个大的彩虹色的黑色公鸡，叫做大力神。每个星期六，我和克林什、大卫都把鸡舍打扫干净。克林什似乎以一种由衷的热情承担着最卑微的家务。我收集鸡蛋，喂鸡，在这个过程中，我把所有75只母鸡和大力神当作宠物，它们主宰了它们的生活。有几只母鸡的名字来自希腊神话，当时我正在学校学习希腊神话，我声称通过她的声音就能认出每一只母鸡。

    Soon egg production was going full tilt and we even had a surplus to  preserve in vats of lye for the lean season. Eggs were sorted and cleaned  and sold to neighbours and devotees, who probably thought they had  special qualities, as it was known that Krinsh helped in all this. 
很快，鸡蛋产量开始全速增长，我们甚至有多余的鸡蛋可以储存在大桶里，以备淡季使用。鸡蛋被分类、清洗，然后卖给邻居和信徒，他们可能认为这些鸡蛋有特殊的品质，因为众所周知，克林什在这一切中都起了作用。

    There was such a demand for our produce that we bought another  young cow called Tina, who had been an orphan and hand-fed by bottle.  She was so well-bred that I could bring her into the living-room and she  never once misbehaved. Neither did Hercules who, with one or two of  his privileged hens, ate their dinner in a common bowl alongside the cat  under the kitchen stove (usually while my mother was trying to cook  dinner). 
对我们产品的需求如此之大，以至于我们又买了一头叫蒂娜的小母牛，她是孤儿，用奶瓶喂养。她很有教养，我可以把她带进客厅，她从来没有做过错事。赫拉克勒斯也没有，他带着一两只享有特权的母鸡，在厨房炉子下面的一个普通碗里和猫一起吃晚饭(通常是在我母亲试图做饭的时候)。

    Just before dinner was also the favourite hour for Norbert Schiller, the Austrian actor and poet, to arrive. He had built his own round stone house down the road, and would walk up to Arya Vihara and  right into the kitchen with his goat. The goat nibbled on the tablecloth  or Krinsh's straw hat while Schiller produced a very smelly goat cheese  from his leather pocket for our meal. This was indeed most generous of  him for he lived almost solely on goat cheese and the mustard greens  and avocados which he picked from our orchard. Eventually he would  prosper by getting character parts in films. In those days no one in Ojai  prospered, nor did they appear interested in doing so. Money played  but a small part in any of our lives. 
晚餐前，也是奥地利演员兼诗人诺伯特・席勒(Norbert Schiller)最喜欢到达的时间。他在这条路上建造了自己的圆形石头房子，然后走到艾莉亚・维哈拉跟前，带着山羊直接走进厨房。山羊啃着桌布或克林什的草帽，席勒则从他的皮革口袋里掏出一种气味难闻的山羊奶酪给我们吃。他真是太慷慨了，因为他几乎完全靠山羊奶酪、从我们果园里摘的芥菜和牛油果为生。最终，他在电影中获得了角色角色，从而获得了成功。在那些日子里，奥康没有一个人富裕起来，他们似乎也没有兴趣这样做。金钱在我们的生活中只起了很小的作用。

    Although he was sympathetic to our endeavours, my father took no  active part in the farming at which we worked so strenuously during  the war years. He kept himself busy in his office, but Krinsh, prevented  by the war from his customary travels, would probably have been bored  and restless without all his chores. 
虽然父亲对我们的努力表示同情，但他并没有积极参与我们在战争年代辛勤劳作的农业活动。他在办公室里忙得不可开交，但由于战争的原因，克林什不能像往常一样旅行，如果不做这些家务，他可能会感到无聊和不安。

    Life on the farm got harder. The two ranch hands were drafted,  leaving only Willie who, as manager, was exempt. The initial excitement  of getting the enterprises going wore offa bit and the endless realities  of labour and the demands of the animals became all we had time or  energy for. Yet with the world in the state it was, we felt exceptionally  fortunate. 
农场的生活越来越艰难。两个农场工人都被征召入伍，只留下威利作为经理被豁免。最初让企业运转起来的兴奋感逐渐消退，没完没了的劳动现实和对动物的需求成了我们唯一的时间和精力。然而，在世界处于这种状态的情况下，我们感到格外幸运。

    Rosalind worked from six in the morning till after dinner each night.  In addition to the farm work she still made my few good clothes and  my father's and Krinsh's good shirts and nightshirts. Most of the time  we wore blue jeans and denim shirts, except my father, who stuck to  his old English grey flannels. 
罗莎琳德每天从早上六点工作到晚饭后。除了农活，她还为我做几件好衣服，为我父亲和克林什做几件好衬衫和睡衣。大多数时候，我们都穿着蓝色牛仔裤和牛仔衬衫，除了我父亲，他坚持穿他的旧英国灰色法兰绒。

    Eventually we were allowed to provide agricultural labour for two  young conscientious objectors who came to stay at Arya Vihara and  help there as an alternative to war duty. One of them, Bill Quinn, had  gone to Harvard and was deeply influenced by Thoreau. In fact, he was  far better at quoting Thoreau than wielding a pitchfork, but in time his  gentle ways won over even the cows. Life at Arya Vihara suited him  perfectly. He had a fondness for the animals which was a requirement  in caring for them as the two cows, all seventy-five hens and Hercules  were my personal pets. 
最终，我们被允许为两个年轻的出于良心拒服兵役的人提供农业劳动，他们来到艾莉亚维哈拉，帮助那里，作为战争义务的替代。其中一个叫比尔・奎因(Bill Quinn)，他上过哈佛大学，深受梭罗的影响。事实上，他更擅长引用梭罗的话，而不是挥舞干草叉，但随着时间的推移，他温柔的方式甚至征服了奶牛。艾莉亚维哈拉的生活非常适合他。他很喜欢这些动物，这是照顾它们的必要条件，因为那两头奶牛、七十五只母鸡和大力神都是我的私人宠物。

    Rosalind did her best to keep up a correspondence with her closest friends. To Blanche, in November 1942, she wrote: ?(r)We are well and busy. A friend who has not seen Krishnaji for months says she has never seen him look so blooming. So now you will be able to put down the New York rumors of death and illness. Raja is one moment seemingly all right and the next not so well.?± The false rumours had brought wires of condolence about Krinsh's supposed death. 
罗莎琳德尽力与她最亲密的朋友保持通信。1942年11月，她在给布兰奇的信中写道:“我们很好，很忙。一位几个月没见过克里希那吉的朋友说，她从来没有见过他如此容光焕发。现在你可以平息纽约关于死亡和疾病的谣言了。拉贾这一刻还好好的，下一刻就不太好了。不实的谣言带来了对克林什所谓的死亡表示哀悼的电报。

    Mr Robbie, ever faithful with his letters, must have been one of  Rosalind's prime diversions during these years. He had a light touch  in everything, even in expressing his strong feelings about the war: 
罗比先生总是忠实于他的信，这一定是这些年罗莎琳德最主要的消遣之一。他做任何事都很轻松，甚至在表达他对战争的强烈感情时也是如此。

    Jan 5, 1943  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Aside from the cold and the rationing and the taxes everything  is better ⌒ better than next year! Mabel [his secretary] and I have  reserved passage on the American Airlines for L.A. and hope that  the O.P.A. and the W.P.B. and the Japs and the Germans will not  prevent our going . . . 
最亲爱的罗齐:
除了寒冷、定量配给和税收，一切都比明年好!梅布尔(他的秘书)和我已经预订了去洛杉矶的美国航空公司的机票，希望美国航空管理局、美国邮保局、日本鬼子和德国人不会阻止我们去……

    Aug 25, 1943  Have you read about the ?(r)Big Inch'? the 24 inch pipeline which has  just been completed from Texas to Pennyslvania and New Jersey. It  has broken twice since it was completed last week and thousands of  acres only a few miles from here have been ruined and the Nesharminy  Creek and the Delaware River have a scum of oil on them which has  killed thousands of fish. Nice going! And now the only man in the  Cabinet ⌒ Sumner Welles ⌒ has been fired because old lady Hull and  the Southern voters thought he had too many brains. 
1943年8月25日你读过《大英寸》吗?从德克萨斯到宾夕法尼亚和新泽西的24英寸管道刚刚完工。自上周完工以来，它已经破裂了两次，距离这里只有几英里的数千英亩土地被毁，内沙米尼河和特拉华河上有一层浮油，导致数千条鱼死亡。做得好!现在内阁中唯一的男人萨姆纳・威尔斯被解雇了，因为赫尔老太太和南方选民认为他太有头脑了。

    Sept 23, 1943  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Beato recently wrote quite incidentally something so nice about  you and so cleverly phrased that I must share it. She said: ?(r)I have  not seen Rosalind nor Rajagopal since you left. I long for a glimpse  of Rosie, she has the power to dispel with such quick immediacy the  thickness of everyday life.' 
1943年9月23日
比托最近偶然地写了一些关于你的非常好的东西，而且措辞非常巧妙，我必须和你分享。她说:“(r)自从你走后，我就没见过罗莎琳德和拉加戈帕尔。”我渴望一睹罗西的风采，她有能力迅速驱散日常生活的阴霾。”

    That is a gem of a sentence and in your case, dear, it is true. How  are you and Radhi and Raja and Krinsh and the cows and the bees  and the chickens? Don't feel you have to write, but a line 1s always  appreciated. too put my oar in the pacifist cause by volunteering my father to  counter-argue a March of Time newsreel on India that had been shown  in my school. Even at eleven, I was outraged by the broadside attack  on Gandhi and asked the headmaster if he would invite my father to  give a truer picture. This he willingly did and then asked me for a little  background on my father ⌒ a tall order which I simplified by saying,  ?(r)When he was a little boy he was so poor he stood around garbage  pails to catch the crows to eat.?± I have no idea how this image of  my Brahmin, vegetarian father could have entered my imagination or  what mischievous impulse came over me. Just before Raja had to give  his talk the headmaster asked him if he had really lived on crows as a  young boy. My father was so baffled by this question it is a wonder  he could talk at all, but he did and, much to my pride, so brilliantly  explained Gandhi's actions and philosophy that not only the headmaster  but most of my friends changed their attitude toward India ⌒ in spite  of my crow story. 
这是一句至理名言，在你的情况下，亲爱的，这是真的。你、拉迪、拉贾、克林什、奶牛、蜜蜂和鸡都好吗?不要觉得你一定要写，但是一行一行总是值得赞赏的。我也参与了和平主义事业，自愿让父亲去反驳一部在我学校放映的《时代进行曲》(March of Time)关于印度的新闻短片。即使在十一岁的时候，我也对对甘地的猛烈攻击感到愤怒，并要求校长邀请我父亲给我一个更真实的描述。他很乐意这样做，然后问我一些关于我父亲的背景――这是一个很高的要求，我简单地说:当他还是个小男孩的时候，他很穷，他站在垃圾桶周围抓乌鸦吃。我不知道我的婆罗门素食父亲的形象是如何进入我的想象的，也不知道是什么恶作剧的冲动控制了我。就在拉贾开始演讲之前，校长问他小时候是否真的靠吃乌鸦为生。我的父亲被这个问题难住了，他居然能说话简直是个奇迹，但他还是开口了，而且，让我感到骄傲的是，他如此出色地解释了甘地的行为和哲学，以至于不仅校长，而且我的大多数朋友都改变了他们对印度的态度，尽管我讲了乌鸦的故事。

    The old days of beautiful pergolas and roses and lily ponds at Arya  Vihara vanished with the war and the need for all our effort to go into  productive activity. As Mr Robbie observed: 
过去在艾莉亚维哈拉有美丽的藤架、玫瑰和百合池塘的日子，随着战争和我们投入生产活动的需要而消失了。正如罗比先生所说:

    Jan 6, 1944 
    . . . I am sorry about the pergola which Sara took such pleasure in building. I should have been glad to help repair it but I suppose Willie, Raja and Krinsh felt that it was of little use and should be replaced by something that would bring in a return . . . 
    Please forgive me for dragging you into this S affair. I don't know what she has in mind and doubt if she does either so I tried out the formula for success in Washington: ?(r)Shoot the bull, pass the buck and make seven copies of everything!' 
    Love, 
    ROBERT 
1944年1月6日
……我很抱歉莎拉喜欢搭的凉棚。我应该很乐意帮忙修理它，但我想威利、拉贾和克林什觉得它没什么用，应该用能带来回报的东西来取代它…
请原谅我把你拖进这件事。我不知道她在想什么，也怀疑她是否知道，所以我在华盛顿尝试了成功的公式:(r)说废话，推卸责任，把所有东西都复印七份!”
爱,
罗伯特。

    Mr Robbie was referring to an unbalanced lady who had been  troubling him over her fixation on Krinsh, wanting Mr Robbie to  intercede on her behalf. 
罗比先生指的是一位精神不正常的女士，她对克林什的迷恋一直困扰着他，想让罗比先生替她说情。

    As is to be expected around people like Krinsh, there was never a  shortage of unbalanced people; most of them quite harmless but some  creating a good deal of consternation. One could only hope that, as  Aldous put it in one of his later talks, the lunatic fringe did not become  like a Spanish shawl where the fringe is greater than the shawl. In some  instances Krinsh exacerbated the problem by not dealing with them de- cisively in the first place. A few were bordering on the dangerous. One  of these cases was a supposedly crippled and semi-bedridden woman  who lived down the hill from Arya Vihara. She wrote several pitiful  letters to Krinsh and he finally agreed to go and visit her, which he  then continued to do regularly. One day I answered the front-door  bell to find a stout unkempt woman standing there on her crutches.  I immediately guessed her identity, which was confirmed when our  cat Minnie, who herself had become slightly demented after the bird  incident, took one look at the woman, arched her back and hissed. |  felt my elders should have taken this as a serious warning, but they did  not do so. 
在像克林什这样的人身边，从不缺少不平衡的人，这是可以预料的。它们中的大多数是无害的，但有些会造成很大的恐慌。人们只能希望，正如Aldous在他后来的一次演讲中所说的那样，极端主义的边缘不会像西班牙披肩那样流苏比披肩还要大。在某些情况下，克林什一开始就没有果断地处理这些问题，从而加剧了问题。有几个已经接近危险了。其中一个案例是一个住在Arya Vihara山下的跛足半卧床的女人。她给克林什写了几封可怜的信，克林什最终同意去看望她，并继续定期去看望她。一天，我去应门门铃，发现一个粗壮邋遢的女人拄着拐杖站在那里。我立刻猜到了她的身份，当我们的猫米妮(Minnie)看了那个女人一眼，拱起背，发出嘶嘶声时，我的猜测得到了证实。米妮在鸟事件后也有点精神错乱。我觉得我的长辈们应该把这当作一个严重的警告，但他们没有这样做。

    Another day my friend Ellen and I, walking in the hills, saw this  woman charging down the path with her crutches tucked under her  arm. I told Krinsh I thought he was being deceived. My mother began  to receive anonymous letters threatening terrible consequences if she did  not get out of Krinsh's house. Finally Mr Robbie was accosted by the  woman, who threatened him with her crutch. This was taken seriously.  Thanks to the unorthodox co-operation of the post lady (who gathered  and delivered the mail in her Model A) my father was able to prove  where the letters came from. After much difficulty, legal action was  taken and the threatening member of the ?(r)fringe' banished from the  state of California. 
还有一天，我和我的朋友艾伦在山上散步，看见一个女人夹着拐杖从小路上冲下来。我跟克林什说我觉得他被骗了。我母亲开始收到匿名信，威胁说如果她不离开克林什的家，就会有可怕的后果。最后，罗比先生被那个女人搭讪，并用她的拐杖威胁他。这件事得到了认真对待。多亏了邮递员的非正统合作(她用她的A型车收集和投递邮件)，我父亲才能够证明这些信是从哪里来的。在经历了许多困难之后，采取了法律行动，并将这名具有威胁性的“边缘”成员驱逐出了加利福尼亚州。

    One of our harmless members of the ?(r)fringe' seemed fairly normal  by day but on moonlit nights would wander up and down the road  in front of Arya Vihara with her long white hair streaming down  her back, chantuing Krishnaji-i-i-, Krishnaji-i-1. My mother had made  a dressmaker's form which probably accounted for the rumour started  by this woman that Rosalind kept a skeleton in her closet. That papier  mich¨| form of my mother must have terrified the poor moonstruck  lady, but perhaps it taught her to keep out of other people's closets. 
我们的一个“边缘”成员在白天看起来很正常，但在月光下的夜晚，她会在艾莉亚・维哈拉前面的路上走来走去，长长的白发披在背后，吟唱着克里希那吉-我-我-克里希那吉-我-1。我母亲做了一份裁缝的表格，这可能就是这个女人开始谣言说罗莎琳德在衣橱里藏了一件骷髅的原因。我母亲那张纸醉金迷的模样一定吓坏了这位可怜的月患症的女士，但也许这也教会了她远离别人的衣橱。

    Although I had been strictly brought up by Krinsh not to indulge in  beliefs (which had effectively done away with fairies, leprechauns,  Santa Claus and God), I was astonished one night to discover that  ghosts fell' into another category, although just what category I was  never to discover. I sensed already that ghosts might not fall in the  realm of belief. But no one in our family had ever mentioned them in  the realm of personal experience either. Once I saw a startled look on  Krinsh's face when I matter-of-factly stated that [ had seen Nitya's ghost  in the hallway. There was something in his expression that forbade my  making further play of this, which was all it had been. I knew that  Nitya had died in the front room but he was in some ways alive to  me even though I had never seen him. My mother had spoken of him  often and of her times with him, reading poetry and singing, and I had  picked up some of her nostalgia. He was seldom mentioned by Krinsh  or my father. 
尽管我一直被克林什严格地教导不要沉迷于信仰(这些信仰实际上已经把仙女、小矮妖、圣诞老人和上帝都抛弃了)，但有一天晚上，我惊讶地发现鬼魂属于另一种类型，尽管我从来没有发现是哪一种。我已经感觉到鬼魂可能不属于信仰的范畴。但我们家也没有人在个人经历中提到过它们。有一次，当我实事求是地说我在走廊里看到妮提亚的鬼魂时，我看到了克林什脸上惊讶的表情。他的表情中有一种东西，使我不能再把这件事说下去了。我知道妮提亚已经死在了前厅，但在某种程度上，他对我来说是活着的，尽管我从未见过他。母亲经常说起他，说起她和他一起读诗、唱歌的时光，我感受到了她的一些怀旧之情。克林什和我父亲很少提到他。

    One evening at dinner my father said that for the past three nights someone had been entering his fireproof room, which was double- locked and impossible to break into. The metal door made a peculiar  clang when it shut, no matter how careful one was. Each night he had  investigated and found no sign of a person. ?(r)It must be a ghost,?± he  said. My mother looked annoyed by the story and put no credence  in the idea of a ghost, which she was determined to lay to rest. She  did have some anxiety that it might be a person, one of our ?(r)fringe'  perhaps. Krinsh suggested that the three of us, without telling Raja,  take turns keeping watch all night from his veranda, which overlooked  Raja's office. Of course, I thought the whole thing a great lark and felt  sure that was indeed all it was until, when it was my turn to keep the  watch, Krinsh said to me in utmost earnestness,   ?(r)Kittums, remember this: a ghost can never hurt you. It can only  make you think it has hurt you.' 
一天晚上吃饭的时候，父亲说，在过去的三个晚上，有人一直进入他的防火房间，房间上了双锁，不可能破门而入。不管你多么小心，那扇金属门一关上，就发出一种奇怪的叮当声。每天晚上他都进行调查，但没有发现有人的迹象。那一定是个鬼。他说。我母亲听了这个故事似乎很生气，她不相信有鬼魂的说法，她决心让鬼魂安息。她确实有些担心，那可能是个人，也许是我们的一个“边缘人”。克林什建议我们三个人在不告诉拉贾的情况下，整夜轮流在他的阳台上监视，阳台可以俯瞰拉贾的办公室。当然，我认为整件事不过是闹着玩的，而且我确信事情就是这样，直到轮到我放哨的时候，克林什极其认真地对我说:“小猫们，记住这一点:幽灵是永远伤害不了你们的。”它只会让你觉得它伤害了你。”

    At first, I was inclined to assume he was only adding a little spice to  our adventure, but when I looked at his face [ knew he wasn't joking.  He was really nervous about leaving me alone out there. Nothing  whatsoever appeared that night and the next day we asked my father  if he had heard his ghost. Most disappointingly he replied that there  had been no sounds all night. So the mystery was never solved, but  the sounds never recurred. 
起初，我倾向于认为他只是在给我们的冒险增添一点情趣，但当我看着他的脸时，我知道他不是在开玩笑。把我一个人留在外面，他真的很紧张。那天晚上什么也没出现，第二天我们问父亲是否听到了他的鬼魂。最令人失望的是，他回答说整晚都没有声音。所以这个谜一直没有解开，但这些声音再也没有出现过。

    The war was nearing its end, and reports came from Europe that were  more and more horrifying. Not until then had Annie Vigeveno known  that over forty of her family had died in the gas chambers. Ommen  had been used by the Nazis as a concentration camp. Some friends had  died and some had survived, but Ommen would never be the same and  Krishna would never return there. 
战争即将结束，来自欧洲的报道越来越可怕。直到那时，安妮・维格韦诺才知道她的家人中有四十多人死于毒气室。奥门曾被纳粹用作集中营。有些朋友死了，有些活了下来，但欧门再也不一样了，奎师那也再也不会回到那里了。

    Mr Robbie wrote, ?(r)I am sorry too about Mrs Vigeveno. [ am afraid  Germany earned her fate by allowing a crazy fanatic to dictate her  policies and alienate from her the whole common sense (even if largely  hypocritical) world.?± And in reference to a smaller private war, he  commented, ?(r)Did you know that George Arundale has repudiated  for himself at least ⌒= Co-Masonry, the L.C.C. and the E.S.? He  says the only essential teaching of theosophy is brotherhood; too bad  he didn't think of that sooner.'    
罗比先生写道:“维格韦诺太太的事我也很抱歉。我担心德国的命运是咎由自取，因为它允许一个疯狂的狂热分子支配它的政策，并疏远了整个合乎常识的世界(即使在很大程度上是虚伪的)。在谈到一场规模较小的私人战争时，他评论道:“(r)你知道乔治・阿伦代尔至少为自己否定了共济会、L.C.C.和E.S.吗?他说，通神论的唯一基本教义是兄弟情谊;可惜他没有早点想到这一点。”

