18 Wrightwood 赖特伍德

    The Huxleys had a home in the Mojave desert in a small spot called  Llano. There was nothing but a curve in the road and a sign to  distinguish Llano from any other spot in that vast stretch of pinons  and Joshua trees. Aldous began to suffer from bronchial trouble there  and in the course of their frequent explorations they had discovered a  mountain town between the desert and Los Angeles called Wrightwood.  Aldous was much relieved by the mountain air. But poor Maria detested  the village, found the houses ugly, and the altitude made her slightly ill. She called herself a desert rat and Aldous a mountain squirrel and  never came to like Wrightwood; but with her characteristic concern for  Aldous's well-being, she cheerfully accepted an impractical and badly  made house and all the difficulties involved in living in such a remote  place in wartime.  Late spring 1945 found the world still in the throes of terror and  chaos; the future was far from clear. The first atomic bomb had been  detonated, even though it was afterwards admitted within scientific  circles that there was no absolute certainty the whole atmosphere would  not be ignited by this experiment. Aldous was one of those few who  saw so clearly at that moment the future consequences of such an  experiment. With the details coming to light of the concentration  camps on the one side and the results of fire bombings of much of  Germany on the other, and the plight of refugees all over Europe,  there was some reason to believe that much of the world had run  amok. 
赫胥黎一家在莫哈韦沙漠的一个叫Llano的小地方有个家。路上只有一个弯道，还有一个标志，可以把利亚诺和那大片的松树和约书亚树区别开来。奥尔多斯在那里开始患支气管疾病，在他们频繁的探险过程中，他们发现了一个位于沙漠和洛杉矶之间的山城，名叫赖特伍德。山上的空气使奥多斯松了口气。但是可怜的玛丽亚讨厌这个村子，她觉得房子很丑，而且那里的海拔使她有点不舒服。她称自己为沙漠老鼠，称奥尔道斯为山间松鼠，从来没有喜欢过赖特伍德;但出于她对奥多斯幸福的一贯关心，她欣然接受了一所不实用的、简陋的房子，接受了战时在这样一个偏远地方生活所涉及的所有困难。1945年春末，世界仍处于恐怖和混乱的阵痛之中;未来还很不明朗。第一颗原子弹被引爆了，尽管后来科学界承认，并不能绝对肯定这次实验不会点燃整个大气层。奥尔多斯是当时少数几个清楚地看到这种实验未来后果的人之一。随着集中营细节的曝光，德国大部分地区遭到燃烧弹轰炸的结果，以及欧洲各地难民的困境，人们有理由相信，世界上大部分地区都陷入了混乱。

    Using affectionate persistence, the Huxleys prevailed upon us to spend  the rest of that summer in Wrightwood. As usual, it was the three of us,  my mother, Krinsh and I who made this move. My father would drive  up from Hollywood or Ojai for an occasional weekend. Maria, in her  letters to Rosalind had begged that we pretend to like Wrightwood,  even if we didn't, to make Aldous happy. 
赫胥黎夫妇深情地坚持着，说服我们在莱特伍德度过了那个夏天剩下的时间。像往常一样，是我们三个人，我母亲、克林什和我，决定搬家的。我父亲偶尔会从好莱坞或欧康开车过来度周末。玛丽亚在给罗莎琳德的信中恳求我们假装喜欢赖特伍德，即使我们不喜欢，也要让奥多斯高兴。

    We found them painting their house, Aldous smeared from head to  toe, valiantly wielding a paintbrush. To us, the village was charming enough, not Alpine or with the overpowering stillness and magnitude  of Sequoia, but we did not share Maria's dislike. 
我们发现他们在粉刷他们的房子，奥多斯从头到脚涂满了油漆，勇敢地挥舞着画笔。对我们来说，这个村子已经够迷人的了，既不是高山，也不是红杉那不可抗拒的寂静和雄伟，但我们并不像玛丽亚那样讨厌。

    Wrightwood is dry, austere, without the attraction of water or the  accompanying noise of water sports. Years later when I had seen the  Himalayas, I felt the affinity here. The silver earth was studded with  pine and fremontia, small clumps of lupin lingered that first summer  and the Indian paint brush in occasional bursts of deep orange nestled  by mica-flecked rocks. 
赖特伍德干燥、简朴，没有水的吸引力，也没有水上运动带来的噪音。多年以后，当我看到喜马拉雅山时，我感到了这里的亲和力。银色的大地上布满了松树和凤仙花，第一个夏天，小簇小簇的芦萍在大地上徘徊，印第安人的画笔不时地在云母斑驳的岩石上画出阵阵深橙色。

    We saw the Huxleys every day ⌒ either for tea at their house or for  dinner at ours. Rosalind and Maria each tried to help the other in her  own way. Maria included us on many occasions when interesting people  came up to see Aldous. for she understood that Krinsh particularly  seemed to need these encounters. Maria began a hope chest for me,  although [ was just a child. T still have the lovely Belgian linens she  gave me then. Preparing food and running large households, something  of a hardship for Maria, was fairly routine for Rosalind, so she often  provided the meals for the whole crowd. Thus our lives, though  in different houses, were linked by mealtimes and also by walks, a  daily routine for both Aldous and Krinsh, accompanied by whoever  could keep up with Aldous's long stride. which was easily matched  by Krinsh's fast one. These were the occasions of their most serious  talks together, and I would glean particles of profound utterance as I  drifted between them and Maria and Rosalind with their, to me, more  intriguing talk about friends and family. 
我们每天都能见到赫胥黎一家，要么在他们家喝茶，要么在我们家吃饭。罗莎琳德和玛丽亚都试图用自己的方式帮助对方。有很多有趣的人来看奥多斯时，玛丽亚都邀请我们一起去。因为她明白，克林什似乎特别需要这些会面。虽然我还只是个孩子，但玛丽亚开始为我建立一个希望箱。我现在还留着她当时送给我的那些可爱的比利时亚麻布。准备食物和管理一大家子人对玛丽亚来说有些困难，但对罗莎琳德来说却是家常便饭，所以她经常为所有人提供食物。因此，我们的生活，虽然住在不同的房子里，却由吃饭时间和散步联系在一起，这是奥多斯和克林什的日常生活，谁能跟上奥多斯的大步，谁就陪着谁。这很容易被克林什的快手所匹配。这是她们最严肃交谈的场合，当我在她们和玛丽亚、罗莎琳德之间穿梭时，我会收集到一些深刻的话语，她们谈论的是朋友和家人，对我来说更有趣。

    There is one evening that first summer that still stands out in my  memory. Raja had come up from Hollywood and after dinner the  three men remained in the living-room, while Maria, Rosalind and |  retreated to a bedroom to chat about lighter matters than we suspected  the men would indulge in. Through the thin wall we could hear and  distinguish their voices. each with his unique, clear British accent and  beautiful pitch. Like a string trio, themes picked up in turn, never  interrupting each other, they played out a conversation that rose and  fell in sonorous tones in a minor scale, gradually winding down to  a dead silence that lasted many minutes. Overcome by curiosity we  crept into the room to see what had befallen them. Three pairs of eves  were bent on the floor, faces sombre, each lost in a private gloom into  which they had so harmoniously talked themselves. It was the middle  of August 1945. 
那年夏天的一个晚上，我至今记忆犹新。拉贾从好莱坞回来了，晚饭后，三个男人留在客厅里，玛丽亚、罗莎琳德和我则退到卧室里，聊些轻松的事，我们怀疑他们不会沉迷于这些事。隔着薄墙，我们能听到并分辨出他们的声音。每个人都有自己独特、清晰的英国口音和优美的音高。就像一个弦乐三重奏一样，主题轮流出现，从不打断对方，他们用小调高亢的音调演奏了一段起起伏伏的对话，逐渐进入了持续了好几分钟的死寂。出于好奇，我们蹑手蹑脚地走进房间，想看看他们发生了什么事。三对眼睛弯着腰趴在地板上，脸色阴沉，每一对都沉浸在一种他们刚才愉快地交谈过的幽幽气氛中。那是1945年8月中旬。

    Finally the war was over, but like Aldous, Krishna and Raja and many others who had insight towards the future, Mr Robbie saw the darker side of victory. 
战争终于结束了，但就像奥尔多斯、克里希纳和拉贾以及其他许多洞悉未来的人一样，罗比也看到了胜利的阴暗面。


    August 16, 1945 
    Dearest Radha, 
    We are of course tremendously pleased that peace has come but there isn't the same thrill as there was when the last war ended for then everyone was full of hope that there would be no more wars and this time we merely rejoice that this war is over and the next one not yet begun. 
1945年8月16日
亲爱的达,
我们当然非常高兴和平已经到来，但是没有上次战争结束时那样激动，因为那时每个人都充满了希望，希望不再有战争，这次我们只是高兴这场战争结束了，下一场还没有开始。

    And a month later he wrote to Rosalind, ?(r)The Atomic bomb seems to  put the last nail in the coffin of Christian civilization. If only Genghis  Khan could have had the use of it he could have killed 180,000,000  people in one year instead of only 18,000. 
一个月后，他写信给罗莎琳德，“(r)原子弹似乎给基督教文明的棺材钉上了最后一颗钉子。如果成吉思汗能够使用它，他可以在一年内杀死1.8亿人，而不是1.8万人。

    Before that summer ended Krishna and Rosalind had been shown the  cabin at Wrightwood which Krishna was to name Greenwood Gate.  They stood together under the great three-hundred-year-old oak tree  that is still there and both felt certain this was the right cabin for us. It  had been built of whole logs nearly a hundred years before by the first  forest ranger in that area. In the 1920s a wealthy lady from Beverly Hills  had added, in the same style, bedrooms and bath, hardwood floors and  other comforts, before she lost everything including the cabin in the  Depression. There was a wistaria-covered porch and beautiful stone  patio. A surrounding forest of pines sheltered the cabin from the sun,  which Krinsh so detested. Aldous, on the other hand, always sought  all the light he could find and thought our cabin sombre though  charming. 
在那个夏天结束之前，克里希纳和罗莎琳德被带到赖特伍德的小屋，克里希纳将其命名为格林伍德门。他们一起站在那棵三百年树龄的大橡树下，两人都确信这就是适合我们的小屋。它是近百年前由该地区的第一位护林员用整根原木建造的。在20世纪20年代，一位来自比佛利山庄的富有女士在大萧条中失去了包括小屋在内的一切之前，以同样的风格增加了卧室和浴室，硬木地板和其他舒适设施。门廊上爬满了紫藤，还有一个漂亮的石头露台。周围的松树林为小屋遮挡了阳光，这是克林什非常讨厌的。另一方面，奥多斯总是寻找他能找到的所有光线，他认为我们的小屋虽然迷人，但很阴暗。

    Using a small sum left to Rosalind by Sara Logan, Raja, with  considerablg trouble, arranged the purchase. There had been a flood  the winter before that had washed away several houses but went right  around this one. Its elderly owner had been on her knees all night  praying for survival. A good part of the mountain had come down  in an avalanche of late April snow followed by heavy rains. Raja had  to wait for an act of Congress to allocate funds for the reparation of  the dirt dam between us and the wash, before the property could be  released for purchase. 
用萨拉・洛根留给罗莎琳德的一小笔钱，拉贾费了好大劲才安排了这次购买。前年冬天发生过一场洪水，冲走了几座房子，但就在这栋房子周围。它年迈的主人整晚跪在地上祈祷能活下来。在四月下旬的一场大雪和随后的暴雨中，这座山的很大一部分已经倒下了。拉贾必须等到国会通过法案，拨付资金来修复我们和洗衣房之间的泥坝，然后才可以出售房产。

    (That was just the beginning of tribulations for us and the cabin.  Following her vision that this cabin would have a long place in our  lives, my mother gave it to my husband and me twenty years later,  urging us never to sell it. To this day we are glad we haven't, although  there were times when we were sorely tempted. There was another  flood just after it became ours, causing us to remove twenty truckloads of silt from the house and the garage. The cabin is standing on the tail  end of the San Andreas fault, on target for the worst earthquake of the century. But our family has enjoyed it along with its resident carpenter ants and bumble-bees for the past forty years.)  Wrightwood marked the end of our annual treks to Sequoia. Our time  was pleasantly intertwined with the Huxleys. Maria and Rosalind shared  their domestic problems. 
(这只是我们和船舱的磨难的开始。按照母亲的设想，这座小屋将在我们的生活中占据很长一段时间，20年后，她把它给了我和我丈夫，敦促我们永远不要卖掉它。直到今天，我们很庆幸我们没有这样做，尽管我们有时非常受试探。就在它成为我们的房子之后，又发生了一次洪水，我们不得不从房子和车库中清除了20卡车的淤泥。小屋坐落在圣安德烈亚斯断层的尾端，是本世纪最严重地震的发生地。但在过去的四十年里，我们家一直很喜欢它，还有住在这里的木蚁和大黄蜂。)赖特伍德标志着我们每年去红杉的长途跋涉的结束。我们的时光与赫胥黎夫妇愉快地交织在一起。玛丽亚和罗莎琳德分享了她们的家庭问题。

    My dearest Rosalind, 
    I missed you at Wrightwood but I found out much usefulness  for both of us and this is to impart it . . . I found excellent men  to do urgent things; regulate oil stove . . . new locks. In fact  quite important details. And I found that Mr Steele though slow  is wonderfully conscientious, willing and capable. If you need him  for stoves or electric light or gas or anything don't hesitate. I found  that your friend of Australia, Harry may become very useful to all  of us as an odd-job man. He seems honest and certainly cheap. He  talks too much . . . 60?é an hour. He is sorting apples for you and  leaving them there. They are rotting . . . There is a Mrs Strott who  lives near the apple orchard . . . we heard the bells of her cows, near  the little lake, when we walked. I had her once. I think she may be  very useful and go to you if you insisted that you needed her ⌒ 75?é  an hour. Tell her I am your friend. I believe she rather enjoyed the  work with different sort of people ⌒ Oh dear, how hard some people  work. She is happy because she had six ?(r)wonderful boys'. 
我最亲爱的罗莎琳:
我在莱特伍德很想念你，但我发现了很多对我们都有用的东西，这是传授给你的…我找到优秀的人来处理紧急的事情;调节油炉…新锁。事实上是非常重要的细节。我发现斯蒂尔先生虽然很慢，但却非常认真、愿意和有能力。如果你需要他做炉子，电灯，煤气什么的，别犹豫。我发现你在澳大利亚的朋友哈里作为一个打零工可能对我们大家都很有用。他看起来很诚实，当然也很小气。他话太多了……60吗?一小时。他在帮你分类苹果，然后把它们放在那里。它们正在腐烂……有一位住在苹果园附近的斯特洛特夫人。我们散步的时候，在小湖边听到了她的奶牛的铃铛声。我曾经拥有过她。我想她可能会很有用，如果你坚持需要她的话，她会去找你的。一小时。告诉她我是你的朋友。我相信她很喜欢和不同类型的人一起工作哦，天哪，有些人工作多努力啊。她很高兴，因为她有六个很棒的男孩。

    We shall arrive late on Friday morning and pass by your house  hoping to arrange a walk or something else. 
    The days were warm and last night was the only one I spent there  . . . I slept atrociously on what I had thought was a divine bed which  took me all day to prepare for Aldous. So I shall have to think up  something else; the difficulty is it must be seven feet. 
我们将在星期五上午晚些时候到达，经过你的房子，希望能安排一次散步或别的什么。
白天很暖和，昨晚是我在那里度过的唯一一个晚上…我在一张我以为是神圣的床上睡得很糟糕，这张床花了我一整天的时间为奥尔多斯做准备。所以我得想出别的办法来;困难的是它必须有七英尺长。

    The departure was dramatic under a darkening sky, the first flakes  of mixed snow and rain and a howling wind. When I reached the  desert a pretty moon seemed ironically to watch my hurrying car; so  slowed down and enjoyed the radiant peace while the clouds crowded  our hills. And so I am home and happy. I go to town tomorrow. It  will be wonderful to meet and I have made some cakes. To send to  Europe as you suggested. Eight pounds for them and the rest for us  when you will please come to tea. One batch turned out like toffee  but your family is sweet about my misfits so I am keeping them for  you! Good night my very dearest. May I say that [ am more fond of you than ever and that it is a very happy feeling to be so fond of  someone. | hope you are well. Your family has my loves [sic] too.  Make sure they all have warm clothes. The cold has a slow creepy  strength which suddenly has paralysed one and the face is green and  the nose is red and the hands clumsy ⌒ and yet that is where we  choose to live. 
在暮色渐暗的天空下，第一片雨雪混合的雪花和呼啸的狂风下，他们的离开是戏剧性的。当我到达沙漠时，一轮美丽的月亮似乎在讽刺地注视着我匆匆赶路的汽车;所以放慢脚步，享受着云雾缭绕的宁静。所以我回家了，很开心。我明天要进城。很高兴见到你，我已经做了一些蛋糕。按照你的建议送去欧洲。八镑给他们，剩下的在你来喝茶的时候给我们。有一批像太妃糖一样，但你的家人对我的不适应很满意，所以我给你留了下来!晚安，我最亲爱的。我可以说我比以往任何时候都更喜欢你，喜欢一个人是一种非常幸福的感觉。希望你一切都好。我也爱你的家人。确保他们都有保暖的衣服。寒冷有一种缓慢的令人毛骨悚然的力量，突然使人瘫痪，脸色发青，鼻子发红，双手笨拙，但这就是我们选择的生活方式。

    When late spring came we moved to Wrightwood for long periods,  taking carloads of produce from the ranch and returning every few  weeks to replenish supplies. 
当晚春来临的时候，我们搬到赖特伍德住了很长一段时间，从农场里开着一车车的农产品，每隔几周回来补充供应。

    In between major reprovisioning in Ojai, we made weekly trips to  the Safeway in San Bernardino. Very occasionally, we could persuade  Krinsh to go to a movie down there with us. He refused to go to  romantic films, but enjoyed Westerns. Whenever there was a kissing  scene he covered his eyes in horror and said, ?(r)What rot!' 
在奥康进行大规模搬迁的间隙，我们每周都会去圣贝纳迪诺的西夫韦超市。偶尔，我们可以说服克林什和我们一起去看电影。他拒绝去看爱情片，但喜欢西部片。每当有接吻镜头时，他就惊恐地捂着眼睛说:“什么鬼!”

    While this attitude may have been perfectly understandable to his  devotees, it seemed somewhat inconsistent to me and probably even  more so to my mother. 
虽然这种态度对他的信徒来说是完全可以理解的，但对我来说似乎有点不一致，对我母亲来说可能更是如此。

    I was now fourteen ⌒ no longer a small, unobtrusive child. While  they never made me feel de trop, 1 sensed they needed to be alone,  especially in the mornings when Krinsh went into my mother's room  where she often would have taken her breakfast tray to bed. This was  a small treat which she particularly enjoyed when away from all the  ranch chores. I was not interested in their conversations any more. 
我现在已经十四岁了，不再是一个不起眼的孩子了。虽然他们从不让我感到孤独，但我感觉到他们需要独处，尤其是在早上，当克林什走进我母亲的房间时，她经常会把早餐托盘放到床上。这是她在远离牧场杂务时特别喜欢的小点心。我对他们的谈话不再感兴趣了。

    I wandered off by myself up the wash through the waves of desert  heat marbled by wafts of fog-cooled breezes. Sometimes a friend from  Ojai came for a visit. But our household seemed strange to most of  them and I felt easier left alone, to sketch, to read among other things  an old edition of War and Peace in four leather-bound volumes that I  brought from Arya Vihara. In that edition the English was interspersed  with long passages of French which I could not get through without  Krinsh's help. Sometimes 1 swam in the local pond or practised the  piano in the local schoolhouse. These were my summer mornings and  [ was perfectly content with them. We always rested after lunch and  then went to the Huxleys for tea, and a walk. Or they came to us for  dinner and an evening around the huge stone fireplace, built so long  ago by the forest ranger. There were no telephones so plans were made  from one day to the next. 
我一个人在沙漠的热浪中漫步，被雾气吹凉的微风吹得像大理石一样。有时一个欧康的朋友来拜访。但对他们大多数人来说，我们的家庭似乎很陌生，我觉得自己一个人呆着更容易些，可以写写素描，读一本旧版的《战争与和平》，那是我从艾莉亚・维哈拉带来的四本皮面的书。在那个版本中，英语中夹杂着很长的法语段落，如果没有克林什的帮助，我是看不懂的。有时我在当地的池塘里游泳，或者在当地的校舍里练习钢琴。这就是我夏天的早晨，我对此非常满意。我们总是在午饭后休息，然后去赫胥黎家喝茶，散步。或者他们来我们家吃晚饭，晚上围着一个巨大的石头壁炉，那是很久以前护林员建的。那时还没有电话，所以每天都要制定计划。

    Greta Garbo came for the day and I trailed along the Blue Ridge  behind her and Krinsh. She was easily as beautiful as her legend. She  was without a trace of make-up, except perhaps on her lashes. The only evidence of vanity was an anti-wrinkle plaster between her eyebrows.  Her hair was straight. She wore a straw hat and pants. She asked  ?(r)profound' questions of the ?(r)Indian Sage', questions parried, averted,  unanswered. Deepest blue eyes glanced up under those famous lashes  to test his imperviousness, or was she genuinely ingenuous? Who could  ever say? They were two such private people. I just hoped she didn't  notice the look Krinsh threw me as he often did when I was there to  witness some particular embarrassment, as though I could somehow  cast back a little sympathy. I could feel his question, ?(r)What am I  to do with this?' Yet I also knew of his secret yen for the world of  actors and popular renown. He had a peculiar affinity for it and had  once told me, ?(r)I would like to write just one big Broadway hit, just  to see how it feels,?± or sometimes it would be ?(r)Just one best-selling  detective novel.' 
葛丽泰・嘉宝那天来了，我跟在她和克林什后面沿着蓝岭走。她很容易就像传说中的那样美丽。除了睫毛外，她没有化过妆。她虚荣心的唯一证据是眉毛间的抗皱膏。她的头发是直的。她戴着草帽，穿着裤子。她问了一些深刻的“印度圣人的问题”，这些问题被回避，被回避，被回答。那双深邃的蓝眼睛在她那著名的睫毛下向上瞥了一眼，试探着他的不透明，还是她真的很天真?谁知道呢?他们是两个如此低调的人。我只是希望她没有注意到，当我在那里目睹某种特别的尴尬时，克林什经常向我投来他的目光，好像我能以某种方式投回一点同情似的。我能感觉到他的问题:“我拿这个怎么办?”然而，我也知道他对演员世界和大众名声的秘密渴望。他对它有一种特殊的亲和力，有一次他告诉我:“我只想写一首百老汇的大热门，只是想看看它是什么感觉。”±或者有时会是?(r)只是一本畅销侦探小说。”

    There was a picnic with the Huxleys and Stravinskys also on the Blue  Ridge at an altitude of 8000 feet. My mother, as usual, had brought  food for everyone and laid it out while the rest of us walked. That  day someone or something persuaded Krinsh to take a sip of wine  and he suddenly fell back off the bench in a dead faint. Everyone  except Rosalind was alarmed. She knew how easily he could faint. In  such company Krinsh always looked a bit aloof and outside the circle,  except with Aldous and Maria with whom he felt perfectly at home.  He showed affection for Aldous, but maintained the usual formality  with Maria that he reserved for all women, seldom using first names,  preferring Madam or Signora. No matter how eminent our guests were,  it was still Krinsh who was always the centre of attention. The more he  appeared to retreat from this position, the more it encompassed him.  There was something in common between him and Greta Garbo in  this. We had witnessed her attempts at incognito when shopping in  Beverly Hills which never failed to draw attention to herself. Everyone  knew exactly who she was. 
赫胥黎夫妇和斯特拉文斯基夫妇也在海拔8000英尺的蓝岭上野餐。像往常一样，母亲给每个人都带来了食物，并在我们其他人走路的时候把食物摆好。那天，不知是什么人说服了克林什喝了一口酒，他突然从长凳上倒了下来，昏倒在地。除了罗莎琳德，每个人都惊慌了。她知道他是多么容易晕倒。在这样的人群中，除了和奥多斯和玛丽亚在一起之外，克林什总是显得有些冷漠，显得格格不入。他对奥多斯表现出了感情，但对玛丽亚保持着他对所有女人都有的礼节，很少直呼其名，更喜欢夫人或夫人。不管我们的客人多么显赫，克林什始终是大家关注的焦点。他越是想从这个位置撤退，这个位置就越是把他包围起来。在这一点上，他和葛丽泰・嘉宝有一些共同之处。我们曾目睹她在比佛利山庄购物时试图隐姓埋名，这总是能引起人们的注意。每个人都知道她是谁。

    One day we were invited to tea at the Huxleys to meet a psychologist,  his wife and secretary. I was sitting next to the wife and suddenly noticed  a complete change of expression, although she seemed to be attentive to  our conversation. A moment later, her original demeanour returning, she  asked me to repeat what I had just said. Maria explained to me later that  she was a split personality, just like the woman in the true case history  of the film, Three Faces of Eve. But in this case both personalities were  compatible and helpful to each other. I never forgot this extraordinary  intimate glimpse of that unusual woman. 
一天，我们应邀去赫胥黎家喝茶，会见一位心理学家、他的妻子和秘书。我坐在他妻子旁边，突然注意到她的表情完全变了，尽管她似乎在专心听我们的谈话。过了一会儿，她恢复了原来的样子，请我把刚才的话再说一遍。玛丽亚后来向我解释说，她是一个人格分裂的人，就像电影《夏娃的三张脸》中真实案例中的女人一样。但在这种情况下，两种性格都是相容的，互相帮助的。我永远不会忘记与那个不寻常的女人的亲密接触。

    Even in Wrightwood there was always a lot of work to do. We did almost everything ourselves. Krinsh decided it would be nice to have  a rose garden. Perhaps he missed the one that had been taken out years  before at Arya Vihara for wartime economy. We planted a row of roses  along the wall above the driveway. The soil was basically rocks of  serpentine and mica, grey and infertile and much digging and mulching  had to be done. Eventually the roses did very well. He and Rosalind  also made a small bathroom down in the garage. A local plumber  installed the fixtures but they did the tiling and painting themselves.  This bathroom was for Krinsh, who slept in the living-room and liked  to get up very early. 
即使在赖特伍德，也总是有很多工作要做。几乎所有的事情都是我们自己做的。克林什觉得有一个玫瑰园会很不错。也许他错过了几年前在艾莉亚维哈拉为了战时节约而被拆除的那个。我们沿着车道上方的墙边种了一排玫瑰。土壤基本上是蛇纹石和云母的岩石，灰色，贫瘠，需要大量的挖掘和覆盖。最后，玫瑰长得很好。他和罗莎琳德还在车库里建了一个小浴室。一个当地的水管工安装了固定装置，但他们自己做瓷砖和油漆。这间浴室是给克林什用的，他睡在客厅里，喜欢早起。

    When we returned from an afternoon walk one day there was a large  rattlesnake curled comfortably on the mat by the kitchen door. Krinsh  was not lacking in courage but it was my mother who had the knack  of dealing with difficult creatures. With gentle urging from a broom  and a firm voice she told the snake to remove itself and find another  home. She was surprisingly persuasive and the reptile slowly uncoiled  and moved off into the brush. We didn't see it again. To my knowledge,  my mother never killed or harmed anything. In this she was like Mr  Robbie, who had once remarked to Beato when she was about to swat  a fly, ?(r)Let it live. It values its life as much as you do yours.?± Beato never  again killed anything either. 
一天下午，我们散步回来，看见一条大响尾蛇舒舒服服地蜷曲在厨房门边的垫子上。克林什并不缺乏勇气，但对付难缠的家伙的诀窍是我母亲。她用扫帚温柔地催促蛇离开，用坚定的声音叫它另找一个家。她出人意料地说服了这只爬行动物，它慢慢地展开身体，爬进了灌木丛。我们没有再看到它。据我所知，我母亲从未杀死或伤害过任何东西。在这一点上，她很像罗比先生，有一次她正要拍一只苍蝇时，罗比先生对比托说:“让它活下去吧。”它和你一样珍惜自己的生命。比托再也没有杀过任何东西。

    My mother also had her own ideas about politics. Even Aldous  could not influence her on issues about which she felt strongly. She  had grown up in a politically oriented household. Her father had  been a state senator with a strong socialist bent and the family had  weathered many campaigns. During the Alger Hiss trial, there were  many heated discussions about his innocence. My mother was certain  he was not_guilty, but thought, in any case, he had not received a  fair trial. Everyone else tried to argue her down, not because they  thought Hiss was guilty but because her certainty seemed to them  irrational. Although Krinsh had always maintained that if a person  were not liberal in his youth he would be mentally ossified in his middle  years, next to my mother he definitely sounded politically conservative,  but when my Aunt Erma was present, who was not only a staunch  Republican, which she saw as the party of Lincoln, but also allowed  herself on occasion to sound pro-American and mildly nationalistic,  Krinsh would remind her, sometimes quite sharply, of the importance  of not thinking in terms of nationalism and ideology. Krinsh was not  a political thinker but lumped both religious and political ideologies in  one trash bin. All leaders were on the wrong path, politicians, teachers,  experts of any kind were to be eschewed. This was helpful for adults with overly encumbered minds who were seeking freedom from their  conditioning, but for young students hoping to get educated, it was not  helpful. It took me quite a few years to overcome the feeling that what  I was being told in the lectures at college was anything but nonsense. I  would find myself reflecting the supercilious attitude that I had so often  seen Krinsh put on in the face of intellectual power. While I was never  permitted by any of my adults to make derogatory or even personal  remarks, Krinsh occasionally did so, perhaps unwittingly or somehow  stirred to an inner exasperation. It was seldom this happened, but 1  remembered him saying after a long walk with Aldous, ?(r)His mind is  like a wastebasket.?± I am sure Aldous would never have suspected that  Krinsh would make such a comment. 
我母亲对政治也有自己的看法。即使是奥多斯也无法在她强烈关注的问题上影响她。她在一个注重政治的家庭中长大。她的父亲是一名有强烈社会主义倾向的州参议员，这个家庭经历了许多竞选活动。在对阿尔杰・希斯的审判中，人们对他的清白进行了许多激烈的讨论。我母亲确信他是无罪的，但她认为，无论如何，他没有受到公正的审判。其他人都试图说服她，不是因为他们认为希斯有罪，而是因为她的肯定在他们看来是不理智的。虽然克林什一直认为，如果一个人在年轻时不自由，那么他在中年时就会精神僵化，在我母亲身边，他在政治上听起来肯定是保守的，但当我的姑姑厄玛在场时，她不仅是一个坚定的共和党人，她认为这是林肯的政党，而且有时也允许自己听起来亲美，温和的民族主义，克林什会提醒她，有时非常尖锐，不考虑民族主义和意识形态的重要性。克林什不是一个政治思想家，但他把宗教和政治意识形态都放在一个垃圾桶里。所有的领导人都走错了路，政治家、教师、任何类型的专家都要避开。这对那些思想过于束缚、想要摆脱自身制约的成年人很有帮助，但对希望受教育的年轻学生来说，却没有帮助。我花了好几年的时间才克服这种感觉，即我在大学讲课时所听到的绝不是废话。我发现自己反映出我经常看到克林什在面对智力力量时所表现出的傲慢态度。虽然我的大人从来不允许我说贬损的话，甚至是针对我个人的评论，但克林什偶尔会这么做，也许是无意的，也许是出于某种原因，激起了我内心的愤怒。这种事很少发生，但我记得他和奥多斯走了很长一段路后说:“他的脑子就像一个废纸篓。”我相信Aldous绝对不会怀疑Krinsh会做出这样的评论。

    I look back now on those years at Wrightwood as the last of our happy  times together with Krinsh. Both my parents had occasional quarrels  with him, but they were of the same nature as they had always been  usually because he had lied about something. My mother asked him  once why-he lied and he replied with astonishing frankness, ?(r)Because  of fear.'  In some ways Rosalind's psychology was so simple. She thought  once a fault was recognized and admitted all you had to do was decide  to stop it. She never recognized the complexity of Krinsh's problem  until it was too late. My father, on the other hand, tended to make  everything so complex that he became mired in his own speculations. 
现在回想起在赖特伍德的那些年，我觉得那是我们和克林什一起度过的最后的快乐时光。我的父母偶尔也会和他吵架，但他们的本性和以前一样，通常是因为他在某些事情上撒了谎。有一次我母亲问他为什么――他撒谎了，他惊人地坦率地回答说:“因为害怕。”在某些方面，罗莎琳德的心理是如此简单。她认为一旦错误被发现并承认，你所要做的就是决定停止它。她一直没有意识到克林什问题的复杂性，直到为时已晚。另一方面，我父亲倾向于把每件事都弄得如此复杂，以至于他陷入了自己的猜测之中。

    There was still a great deal of love: between my mother and Krinsh,  from my father to Krinsh and possibly from Krinsh to my father, though  of this I am still uncertain. I never had any doubt of the love I had for  each of the three of them and which they all had for me. 
我母亲和克林什之间，我父亲和克林什之间，也许还有克林什和我父亲之间，尽管这一点我仍然不确定。我从来没有怀疑过我对他们三个人的爱，他们也都对我的爱。

