 19 A School is Born 一所学校诞生
    When, in 1927, Mrs Besant had bought the Happy Valley land and  entrusted it to the Happy Valley Foundation, whose members she  had chosen, she told them they had centuries in which to work.  By extending her vision over such a long range she alleviated the  impatience that might have arisen in her trustees to see instant marvels  arising in Happy Valley. This, however, did not alleviate the problem  of meeting the annual payments on the $90,000 mortgage with which  the property was encumbered. That onerous duty fell largely on the  Logans and Louis Zalk. They issued regular appeals for pledges to  help clear title. Those loyal to Mrs Besant, those who shared in her  vision of the coming sixth sub-root race, answered the call for help  until the Great Depression fell upon the world. Then the Logans and  Louis Zalk were left with a considerable financial problem, for they  also were affected by the crash. For the next twenty-five years there  would be a running correspondence between Robert and Louis about  their joint responsibility. This exchange began in Robert's usual wry  tone in October 1930. 
1927年，贝赞特夫人买下了欢乐谷的土地，并把它委托给了她选择的欢乐谷基金会(Happy Valley Foundation)，她告诉他们，他们有几个世纪的时间可以工作。她把眼光放得很远，减轻了受托人急于看到欢乐谷立即出现奇迹的不耐烦情绪。但是，这并没有减轻每年支付作为该财产抵押的9万美元抵押贷款的问题。这项繁重的任务主要落在了洛根夫妇和路易斯・扎尔克身上。他们定期发出呼吁，要求各方承诺帮助厘清所有权。那些忠于贝赞特夫人的人，那些认同她对即将到来的第六次种族愿景的人，响应了求助的呼吁，直到大萧条降临世界。然后，洛根夫妇和路易斯・扎尔克面临着相当大的财务问题，因为他们也受到了经济危机的影响。在接下来的25年里，罗伯特和路易斯一直在通信，谈论他们共同的责任。1930年10月，这段对话以罗伯特惯常的讥讽口吻开始。

    Dear Louis, 
    Of course I will help you out as you request but really I do not quite understand what the situation will be, to whom payments will be made and by whom records kept and receipts sent. 
    Enlighten me a little in words of one syllable . . . I remember we had a meeting . . . at which everybody was elected trustee and then immediately resigned and was replaced by everybody else. 
    . . . believe me, with all good wishes, 
    Faithfully, 
    ROBERT 
亲爱的路易,
当然，我会按照你的要求帮助你，但我真的不太明白情况会是怎样，向谁付款，由谁保存记录和发送收据。
用一个音节的话给我一点启发吧……我记得我们开过会…每个人都被选为受托人，然后立即辞职，由其他人接替。
……相信我，怀着美好的祝愿，
忠实,
罗伯特。

    This tone of informality should not belie the competence and dedi- cation of these two men in their efforts to bring to fruition Mrs Besant's  vision. Had they not believed so firmly in that, they would have found the task too trying. The only source of income on the land was a walnut  grove which sometimes helped to pay the taxes and mortgage and was  managed by a tenant farmer, the original owner of the land. There was  a steady stream of people, mostly Theosophists, who hoped themselves  to be a part of the new sixth sub-root race or at least wanted to be there  ready to welcome it. Fielding these inquiries was a duty which fell to  Robert. 
这种不拘小节的语气不应低估这两个人在努力实现贝赞特夫人的愿景方面的能力和奉献精神。如果他们不是如此坚定地相信这一点，他们就会发现这项任务太艰巨了。这片土地唯一的收入来源是核桃园，有时用来支付税收和抵押贷款，由佃农管理，即土地的原始所有者。这里有源源不断的人，大多数是通神论者，他们希望自己成为新的第六次根种族的一员，或者至少想在那里准备好迎接它。回答这些问题是罗伯特的责任。

    June 22, 1935  Dear Louis,  I quite agree with your letter about not considering any colonizing plans until we can hold a real meeting of the trustees.  As I have had to answer a good many criticisms and enquiries  lately . . . I inclose copies . . . of some of my answers for your  comments. 
1935年6月22日亲爱的路易斯:我非常同意你的信，在我们召开一次真正的受托人会议之前，不要考虑任何殖民计划。由于我最近不得不回答许多批评和询问……随函附上副本…我对你的评论的一些回答。

    Dear Kahuna, 
    As for starting colonization, there is certainly no ?(r)no Theosophist  need apply' attitude on the part of the trustees; there is only . . . a  desire to be very sure of not making some wrong venture when the  land is still under a substantial mortgage. A failure now would make  it almost impossible ever to get the mortgage paid off or reduced to  safe proportions . . . meanwhile it could do no harm to submit to  Louis Zalk some practical plans and suggestions toward first steps  in colonization. 
亲爱的魔法师,
至于开始殖民，当然没有神智学者需要对受托人采取“态度”;只有……当土地仍处于大量抵押之下时，希望非常确定不会做一些错误的冒险。现在的失败将使抵押贷款几乎不可能还清或减少到安全的比例……与此同时，向路易斯・扎尔克提出一些关于殖民初期的实际计划和建议也无妨。

    Dear Mrs S 
    You are quite at liberty to change your pledge or cancel it altogether  .. . As for the colonization of Happy Valley, the trustees have no  other thought in mind and would certainly not have made all the  efforts they have had to make for seven years to reduce the heavy  mortgage from $90,000 to 843,000 if they had not been dedicated to  the ultimate accomplishment of Dr Besant's intentions. 
亲爱的S太太
你方完全有权更改质押或完全取消质押至于欢乐谷的殖民化，受托人没有其他的想法，如果他们没有致力于贝赞特博士意图的最终实现，他们肯定不会付出七年的努力，把沉重的抵押贷款从9万美元减少到84.3万美元。

    T.S. members are sometimes too ready to criticize each other's  efforts without a clear understanding of the facts and I hope when  vou hear further criticism of the Happy Valley Foundation . . . you  will ask the critics to send in some helpful suggestions instead.  By 1941, the Happy Valley situation was basically unchanged except  that the mortgage was being reduced and the land therefore still intact.  There were still as many ideas as to what the land should be used for and who should do the using as there were people, both within the  foundation and on the outskirts ~ to say nothing of the ?(r)fringe'. 
T.S.成员有时太容易在没有清楚了解事实的情况下批评彼此的努力，我希望当你听到对欢乐谷基金会的进一步批评时…相反，你可以让批评者给你一些有用的建议。到1941年，欢乐谷的情况基本没有变化，只是抵押贷款减少了，因此土地仍然完好无损。关于这块土地应该用来做什么，应该由谁来使用，仍然有很多想法，因为在基地和郊区都有人，更不用说“边缘”了。

    There was also a claim (later proved to be unfounded) by a Theo- sophical member against Happy Valley for a school in lieu ofa former  loan, about which Robert commented: 
还有一项索赔(后来证明是没有根据的)是由西奥派成员提出的，要求欢乐谷用一所学校代替以前的贷款，对此罗伯特评论道:

    September 12, 1943  Dear Louis, 
    If Miss S. should depart for Shamballa [the home of the king of  the occult hierarchy believed to be located in the Gobi desert] before  the time comes either to found a school or repay the money, there  would probably be no controversy at all; . . . it all seems to rest on  Dr Besant's two letters and the minutes of the Happy Valley. 
1943年9月12日
如果s小姐在建立一所学校或偿还这笔钱的时间到来之前去香巴拉(据信位于戈壁沙漠的神秘等级的国王的家)，可能根本不会有争议;……一切似乎都取决于贝赞特博士的两封信和欢乐谷的会议记录。

    ... To my mind it is not so much a question whether or not we  are trustees of the $12,400 for the purposes of a school as whether  we can avoid having Miss S. at Happy Valley in any capacity. I am  not very clear as to what a Sixth Sub-race person should be but I  feel very sure he must be of quite a different type from Miss S. Or  any other rigid educationalist. 
    Faithfully,  ROBERT 
．．． 在我看来，问题不在于我们是否是这12,400美元的受托人，而在于我们能否避免s小姐以任何身份出现在欢乐谷。我不太清楚第六次种族的人应该是什么样的，但我确信他一定与s小姐或任何其他刻板的教育家完全不同。
忠实,罗伯特

    P.S. We might turn it all over to Miss S. and merely amend our  charter to read THE UNHAPPY VALLEY FOUNDATION.  Whether answering the proposals of over-zealous Theosophists or  members of the ?(r)fringe', Robert politely but firmly maintained the  trustees' intention to steer clear of all the rigid and, in some eyes,  nonsensical aspects of Theosophy such as initiations and the consequent  hierarchical attitudes which he and Sara had never embraced. Mrs Besant  herself had not included these aspects in her concept of Happy Valley's  future. 
附言:我们可以把这一切都交给s小姐，只把我们的章程修改为“不幸谷基金会”。无论是回答过于热心的神智学者还是“边缘”成员的建议，罗伯特礼貌而坚定地维护了受托人的意图，即避开所有僵化的，在某些人看来，荒谬的神智学方面，比如启蒙和由此产生的等级态度，这些都是他和萨拉从未接受过的。贝赞特夫人本人对欢乐谷未来的设想中并没有包括这些方面。

    Robert and Louis were both among Krishna's closest friends and  contributed heavily to what was now called Krishnamurti Writings  Incorporated or KWinc, instead of the Star Publishing Trust. But  Krishna still maintained an aloof distance from Happy Valley. He had  divorced himself from this enterprise before Mrs Besant even had it off  the ground. He was finished with Masters, the sixth sub-root race and  with Theosophy in general, at least at that time. 
罗伯特和路易斯都是克里希那最亲密的朋友，并为现在被称为克里希那穆提写作公司或KWinc的公司做出了重大贡献，而不是明星出版信托基金。但克里希纳仍然与欢乐谷保持着距离感。在贝赞特太太还没开始做这件事的时候，他就和这件事撇清了关系。他完成了大师，第六次根种族和通灵学，至少在那个时候。

    As soon as the war was over, my mother wanted to start a large  community vegetable garden in the lower valley, mostly to provide work for the Japanese who had been interned during the war. It was  a token drop of help in the face of such disgraceful and unnecessary  injustice as they had suffered but she felt strongly about it. Raja,  who thought it was not a feasible undertaking, dissuaded her from  the garden; but he did arrange to hire a Japanese couple, who came to  live in the smaller of Robert's cottages behind Saro Vihara. Ishi worked  in the orchard and garden and Mrs Ishi helped in the household. If they  had bitter feelings they kept them to themselves and showed us always  a courteous and cheerful demeanour. 
战争一结束，母亲就想在地势较低的山谷里开一个很大的社区菜园，主要是为在战争期间被拘留的日本人提供工作。面对他们所遭受的这种不光彩和不必要的不公正待遇，这只是象征性的一点帮助，但她对此感到非常强烈。拉贾认为这是不可能的，劝阻她离开花园;但他确实安排雇佣了一对日本夫妇，这对夫妇住在萨罗维哈拉后面罗伯特的小别墅里。Ishi在果园和花园工作，Ishi太太在家里帮忙。如果他们有痛苦的感觉，他们会把它们藏在心里，对我们总是表现出礼貌和愉快的态度。

    In 1945, Robert and Louis went into another partnership which would  provide the seed bed for the first enterprise of Happy Valley. They  bought the old Star Camp bath-houses and cafeteria building and the  acreage around them from KWInc and were planning to remodel the  bath-houses into apartments. There were murmurings of the possibility  of a school, murmurings which Robert had intuitively foreseen some  years before. Although nothing definite was being decided along these  lines, it was in the back of both their minds that if there should be a  sudden need, the apartments would be available until more permanent  structures could be built on the Happy Valley land fifteen miles away. 
1945年，罗伯特和路易斯建立了另一个伙伴关系，为欢乐谷的第一家企业提供了种子床。他们从KWInc手中买下了旧的星营澡堂和自助餐厅以及周围的土地，并计划将澡堂改造成公寓。有人议论说有可能办一所学校，这种议论罗伯特几年前就凭直觉预见到了。虽然在这方面还没有做出明确的决定，但他们两人心里都想，如果突然有需要，这些公寓是可以出租的，直到15英里外的欢乐谷土地上有更多的永久性建筑建成为止。

    December 17th, 1945 
    Dear Louis, 
    I have your letter of December 11th and note instructions to Willie about bath-houses 3 and 2 . . . If anyone swims out of these bath-houses with a clear mathematical picture of my two-thirds and one-half and your one-half and one-third, it will be Albert Einstein. 
    No one else would have a chance! 
    Faithfully, 
    ROBERT 
1945年12月17日
亲爱的路易,
我收到了你12月11日的来信，以及给威利关于3号和2号澡堂的笔记指示……如果有人带着我的2 / 3和1 / 2以及你的1 / 2和1 / 3的清晰数学图从这些澡堂游出来，这个人一定是阿尔伯特・爱因斯坦。
没有其他人有机会!
忠实,
罗伯特。

    The nucleus that would start the school was forming. A retired  philosophy professor from Vassar, Dr Guido Ferrando, had moved  to Ojai Valley during the war and had given several series of lectures  on the American transcendentalists and on the Divine Comedy. He had  also entered into many discussions on education with Krishna, Rosalind  and Aldous Huxley. His ideas for a Socratic method of teaching fitted  in with many of Krishna's ideas but were more specific and applicable:  term papers rather than formal examinations, small classes arranged in  a circle with a flow of questions and answers between the pupils and  the teacher. Pupils would learn from asking questions and discussing  rather than being lectured to. The emphasis would be on learning to think and there would be no barriers between different disciplines but  an integration of subjects as well as cultures into a world view. 
学校的核心正在形成。瓦萨大学的退休哲学教授圭多・费兰多博士在战争期间搬到了奥康河谷，并就美国先验论者和神曲做了几次系列讲座。他还与克里希纳、罗莎琳德和赫胥黎就教育问题进行了多次讨论。他关于苏格拉底式教学方法的想法与克里希纳的许多想法相吻合，但更具体和适用:学期论文而不是正式考试，小班安排成一个圆圈，学生和老师之间有一系列的问题和答案。学生们将通过提问和讨论来学习，而不是通过讲课来学习。重点将放在学习思考上，不同学科之间将没有障碍，而是将学科和文化整合到一个世界观中。

    Rosalind had been for some years a member of the Ojai Valley School  Board which had originally been based on Edward Yeomans's precepts  of non-competitiveness, in classroom and sports, tolerance and a free  and open mind; similar educational principles to those which Krishna  later formulated. 
罗莎琳德多年来一直是奥康河谷学校董事会的成员，该董事会最初是基于爱德华・约曼斯在课堂和运动中不竞争、宽容和自由开放的思想的戒律;类似奎师那后来制定的教育原则。

    There was a need in the valley for a co-educational high school,  especially at that moment. The ninth grade class, which included me,  was about to graduate from the Ojai Valley School. I well remember  the concern we all had as to where we would go next. Most of us,  having spent four or five years in a very progressive school, were not  enthusiastic to finish our high school days at the public school. All the  other schools in Ojai were for boys only. A ready-made tenth grade  to start with seemed an opportune moment to lay the first cornerstone  ofa long-hoped-for reality. Rosalind had been invited on to the Happy  Valley Foundation a few years before, largely due to Robert's faith,  which he had inherited from Sara and was joimned in by Louis, that  she would accomplish something important if given the chance. At  that time, Rosalind was unaware of this confidence in her, but was  to be sustained by it in the ensuing years. 
山谷里急需一所男女同校的高中，尤其是在那个时候。包括我在内的九年级班级即将从奥海谷学校毕业。我清楚地记得我们大家对下一步该去哪里的担忧。我们中的大多数人，在一所非常进步的学校里呆了四五年，并不热衷于在公立学校完成我们的高中生活。欧康的其他学校都只招收男生。从现成的十年级开始，似乎是为期待已久的现实奠定第一块基石的良机。罗莎琳德几年前被邀请加入欢乐谷基金会，很大程度上是因为罗伯特的信念，他从萨拉那里继承了这种信念，路易斯也加入了他的信念，他相信只要给她机会，她就会完成一些重要的事情。那时，罗莎琳德还没有意识到这种对她的信任，但在随后的几年里，这种信任一直持续着。

    It was Mr Robbie and Louis Zalk who made the school possible  financially. They leased for a dollar a year the old cafeteria building, to  be used for the school house. This was the beginning of their long role  as chief benefactors of the school, just as they had been of the Happy  Valley Foundation. 
是罗比先生和路易斯・扎克为学校提供了经济支持。他们以每年一美元的价格租用了那幢旧的自助餐厅大楼，用作校舍。这是他们作为学校主要捐助者的长期角色的开始，就像他们曾经是欢乐谷基金会的主要捐助者一样。

    Rosalind was rapidly caught up in the practicalities of starting even a  small schools Providing equipment, housing, classrooms, kitchens and  budgets fell to her, in addition to discussing the ideology of the school  with Aldous, Raja, Krishna, Dr Ferrando and many others who had  hoped for years to be part of such an undertaking. Robert and Louis  remained largely in the background of these discussions but as trustees -their undiminishing correspondence revealed their deep concern. They  both believed the school should reflect Mrs Besant's educational ideals,  based on the brotherhood of man and that all the future trustees should  be chosen with this principle in mind. In the midst of the war Robert  had emphasized these views.  The Happy Valley must be a nursery for that true peace which can  only come through understanding and good will, through sympathy  and not through domination . . . [it] is the opposite of the conception of mechanization and regimentation, which has been dominating the world of business and politics, and creating not only the war, but the war of daily life. 
罗莎琳德很快就开始着手办一所小学校的实际工作，除了与奥尔多斯、拉贾、克里希纳、费尔南多博士以及许多多年来一直希望参与这一事业的人讨论学校的理念外，她还需要提供设备、住房、教室、厨房和预算。罗伯特和路易斯在很大程度上仍然是这些讨论的背景，但作为受托人，他们不断减少的通信显示了他们的深切关注。他们都认为学校应该体现贝赞特夫人的教育理念，建立在人类兄弟情谊的基础上，所有未来的受托人都应该考虑到这一原则。在战争期间，罗伯特曾强调过这些观点。欢乐谷必须成为真正和平的苗圃，这种和平只能通过理解和善意，通过同情而不是通过统治来实现……(它)与机械化和集团化的概念相反，机械化和集团化一直主导着商业和政治世界，不仅造成了战争，而且造成了日常生活中的战争。

    In these words Mr Robbie was in accord with both Mrs Besant's  ideals and Aldous's as expressed in Case for Constructive Peace. 
罗比先生的这些话符合贝赞特夫人的理想，也符合奥尔道斯在《建设性和平案例》中所表达的理想。

    It was agreed between Krishna, Raja and Rosalind that Arya Vihara  could be used that first year as a temporary living quarters for the  boarding students until the bath-house remodelling was completed.  This was only because Krishna was planning to leave for Australia in  the summer of 1946, and to be away for a year, the first time he would  leave America since the war had begun. He had never been confined in  one place for so long and his restlessness was showing. Although he  had had the summer trips to Sequoia and Carmel, he must have missed  the large gatherings for his talks in Ommen and India. He had talked  in Ojai only once during the war, in 1944. 
克里希纳、拉贾和罗莎琳德达成协议，第一年，在浴室改造完成之前，Arya Vihara可以作为寄宿学生的临时住所。这只是因为克里希纳计划在1946年夏天去澳大利亚，而且要离开一年，这是战争开始以来他第一次离开美国。他从来没有被关在一个地方这么长时间，他的不安情绪显露出来了。虽然他夏天去了红杉和卡梅尔，但他一定错过了在阿曼和印度举行演讲的大型聚会。战争期间，他只在奥康谈过一次话，那是1944年。

    That summer of 1946 Krinsh, my mother and I returned to Sarobia  for the first gathering since 1940. This proved to be a fertile hunt- ing ground for prospective students of the Happy Valley School.  Rosalind made the most of the opportunity. It was here that she  urged Catherine Sloss to send her son out to California. In part because  of her interest in Krishna and in part because of the school situation  in Birmingham, Catherine went home sufficiently convinced to per- suade her husband that it was a good idea. Little did they realize that  Jimmy, then only fifteen, was to emigrate more or less permanently  to California. 
1946年夏天，我和母亲回到萨罗比亚，这是自1940年以来的第一次聚会。事实证明，这是欢乐谷学校未来学生的肥沃狩猎场。罗莎琳德充分利用了这个机会。正是在这里，她敦促凯瑟琳・斯洛斯把儿子送到加利福尼亚去。部分原因是她对克里希纳的兴趣，部分原因是伯明翰的学校情况，凯瑟琳回家后充分说服丈夫这是个好主意。他们一点也没有意识到，当时年仅15岁的吉米即将或多或少永久移民到加利福尼亚。

    A group of eminent Freudian psychoanalysts had invited Krishna for  a discussion session to Washington, DC after the Sarobia gathering.  Dr Benjamin Weininger had organized these Washington sessions and  had invited us to stay in his Maryland home. These meetings were  a new experience for Krinsh. Here he was not among his old fol- lowers who found every word and every sigh he uttered something  to cherish and remember. Men like Harry Stack Sullivan and Erich  Fromm were quite sure of their ground and their vocabulary, from  both of which Krinsh tried to dislodge them. He tried to insist on  dropping old conditioning, thought, knowledge. While some of them  felt they had come up against a blank wall and needed a new fron- tier, what Krinsh called professionalism in their vocabulary became  a frequent stumbling block. The whole session, whether successful  in terms of closer understanding or not, was arduous for Krinsh. 
一群著名的弗洛伊德精神分析学家邀请克里希纳在萨罗比亚聚会后到华盛顿特区进行讨论。Benjamin Weininger博士组织了这些华盛顿会议，并邀请我们住在他马里兰的家中。这些会议对克林什来说是一次全新的经历。在这里，他不再是他的老追随者了，他们发现他说的每一句话和每一声叹息都值得珍惜和记住。像哈里・斯塔克・沙利文和埃里希・弗洛姆这样的人对自己的立场和词汇非常有信心，而克林什试图把他们从这两方面赶走。他试图坚持放弃旧的制约、思想和知识。虽然他们中的一些人觉得他们遇到了一堵空白的墙，需要一个新的层次，但在他们的词汇中，克林什所说的专业精神成为了一个经常出现的绊脚石。整个会议，无论是否成功，对于克林什来说都是艰难的。

    He had relied emotionally for the past fourteen years on Rosalind's  total attention and enveloping care being projected toward him. She  fully understood that he needed the devotion and commitment of those  close to him no matter how detached he liked to sound. While he did  everything to encourage her to take on the school, he realized that he  had lost her undivided focus. During our stay at the Weiningers, with a  strange sense of desperation Krishna came to Rosalind's room at night.  He had not shown such indiscretion for a long time and it made her  very uncomfortable. 
在过去的十四年里，他在情感上一直依赖罗莎琳德对他的全部关注和关怀。她完全理解他需要那些亲近他的人的奉献和承诺，不管他听起来多么冷漠。虽然他尽一切努力鼓励她承担起学校的责任，但他意识到他已经失去了她一心一意的关注。在我们住在韦宁格家期间，克里希纳晚上带着一种奇怪的绝望感来到罗莎琳德的房间。他很久没有表现出这样的轻率了，这使她很不舒服。

    At Arya Vihara we still had the cow and the chickens, which the Ishis  had cared for in our absence, but for which Rosalind was still basically  responsible. One day the rooster Hercules did not recognize my mother  when she came to feed him and his hens. Her face was blocked by the  large pan she was holding. He rushed at her and jabbed his spur all  the way through her foot. Fortunately, no infection resulted, but the  wound was very painful; it was typical of her to have no hard feelings  towards Hercules. 
在Arya Vihara，我们仍然有牛和鸡，在我们不在的时候由伊什人照顾，但罗莎琳德基本上仍然负责。有一天，公鸡赫拉克勒斯没有认出我母亲来喂他和他的母鸡。她的脸被手里的大平底锅挡住了。他向她冲过去，用马刺刺穿了她的脚。幸运的是，没有感染，但伤口非常痛;她对赫拉克勒斯没有怨恨，这是她的特点。

    The week the school was to open and all the boarders were to arrive,  Rosalind, unstable still from her foot wound and the long-ago effects  of a ski injury, slipped on the back steps. She broke her ankle, which  had to be set in a cast to the knee. 
学校开学的那个星期，所有的寄宿生都要来了，罗莎琳德由于脚伤和很久以前滑雪受伤的后遗症，仍然不稳定，在后面的台阶上滑倒了。她的脚踝骨折了，不得不用石膏固定在膝盖上。

    Many of the students had never experienced the joys of farm life,  Jimmy Sloss among them. The day after he arrived, the cow went into  calf-birth, and, as the calf was coming feet first and had to be turned, it  took all the help available. With my mother laid up, Willie, as the head  midwife, feeling that I, a young girl should not be present, called on  Krinsh and Jimmy to help. His mother believed she had sent her son  to Ojai to b¨| under Krishnamurti's enlightening influence. But Jimmy,  who did not even know that hens could lay eggs without roosters  around, who was not too sure just how milk got from the cow into  the bottle and had never seen anything being born, felt this was quite  a startling though edifying introduction to Ojai. In spite of the novice  midwives, all went well with the calf and Tina provided good milk  throughout the school year. Not long after that our eccentric cat Minnie  decided to have her kittens on Jimmy's bed. 
许多学生从未体验过农场生活的乐趣，吉米・斯洛斯就是其中之一。他到达后的第二天，那头母牛正处于生产阶段，由于小牛的脚在前面，必须翻身，所以它需要所有可用的帮助。我母亲卧病在床，作为接生婆的威利觉得我这个小女孩不应该在场，就叫来了克林什和吉米帮忙。他的母亲相信，她把儿子送到欧康是为了受克里希那穆提的启蒙影响。吉米甚至不知道母鸡在没有公鸡的情况下也能下蛋，他也不太清楚牛奶是如何从母牛那里流到瓶子里的，也从来没有见过任何东西出生，他觉得这对奥康的介绍虽然很有启发性，但却令人吃惊。尽管接生婆都是新手，但小小牛的一切都很顺利，整个学年蒂娜都提供了优质的奶水。不久之后，我们那只古怪的猫米妮决定把她的小猫放在吉米的床上。

    Suddenly Krinsh became desperately ill with high fever and kidney pain. As my mother was on crutches and nine pupils were living in Arya Vihara, it was a crisis. Krinsh would allow no one but my mother near him. She moved him from Pine Cottage to the front room in the big house, where she had nursed Nitya before he died. There she undertook to nurse Krinsh night and day, at the same time somehow managing  to run the household and oversee the organization of the school. 
突然，克林什病得很重，发高烧，肾脏疼痛。我的母亲拄着拐杖，九名学生住在艾莉亚维哈拉，这是一场危机。除了我母亲，克林什谁也不许靠近他。她把他从松树小屋搬到了大房子的前厅，妮提亚死前她就是在那里照顾他的。在那里，她日夜照顾克林什，同时设法料理家务，监督学校的组织。

    As she found crutches impossibly cumbersome while feeding and  sponge-bathing Krinsh, she had to crawl around the room, dragging  her encased leg. Even in a semi-delirious state, Krinsh insisted that there  be no other nurse and made her promise if he became unconscious that  in no event would he be taken to the hospital. He was convinced he  would surely die there. He refused also to have a doctor, but Hugh  Keller, a friend and chiropractor, checked him every day. It was Hugh''s  professional opinion that Krishna's illness was entirely due to his celibate  life which, he thought, had affected the prostate gland. If she had been  capable of such feelings at that moment, this diagnosis might have  caused Rosalind a fleeting moment of amusement. 
当她发现用拐杖给克里什喂食和洗澡时非常麻烦时，她不得不拖着包裹着的腿在房间里爬来爬去。即使在半神志不清的情况下，克林什也坚持要不要其他护士，并让她保证，如果他失去知觉，无论如何都不会送他去医院。他确信他一定会死在那里。他也拒绝看医生，但他的朋友兼脊椎按摩师休・凯勒(Hugh Keller)每天都给他检查。休的专业意见是，克里希纳的病完全是由于他的独身生活造成的，他认为这种生活影响了前列腺。如果她当时能有这样的感觉，这个诊断可能会使罗莎琳德感到片刻的快乐。

    Aldous and Maria, as they had done when Sophia was dying, came  very often and sat quietly in the patio, giving their loving support. They  felt Rosalind was in a very bad position with her promise to Krishna  and would be severely criticized if anything should happen to him. 
奥多斯和玛丽亚，就像索菲亚临终时那样，经常来，静静地坐在院子里，给予他们爱的支持。他们觉得罗莎琳德对克里希纳的承诺很糟糕，如果他出了什么事，她会受到严厉的批评。

    One particularly critical night, while my mother stayed by Krinsh's  side, my father and I paced up and down the driveway under the  brilliantly starred Ojai sky. I shall never forget the love he expressed  for Krinsh, saying our lives would be so strange and empty without  him. He could not have guessed then that it would not be death that  would cause that emptiness for him. That time had not yet come when  they would no longer be close. In spite of difficulties, there had always  been a tie, which even Keiro, by whatever means, had recognized, for  better and for worse. 
一个特别关键的夜晚，母亲守在克林什身边，父亲和我在奥康的夜空下，在车道上来回踱步。我永远不会忘记他对克林什表达的爱，他说，如果没有他，我们的生活会变得如此奇怪和空虚。他当时不可能猜到，死亡不会给他带来那种空虚。他们不再靠近的时刻还没有到来。尽管困难重重，但一直存在着一种联系，即使是Keiro也以某种方式承认了这一点，无论是好是坏。

    Eventually a urologist was consulted at the Sansum clinic in Santa  Barbara. He diagnosed that Krishna had nephritis. After intensive care  for over six weeks, Krishna slowly began to recover and entered into  six months' convalescence. Of course, all his travel plans for that  year had been cancelled, but there was no way to cancel the use  of Arya Vihara as a dormitory. It was imperative to keep everyone  quiet during the worst of his illness. We all sat in the living-room  in the evenings, doing our homework as quietly as if we were in a  library or monastery. We were allowed to play classical music softly  on the phonograph. That young people from diverse homes could be so  co-operative and, with such good will, show spontaneous consideration  was an unexpected precedent in those first formative months for a school  that was based on precisely such ideals. Some of the pupils had never  heard of Krinsh, some were Theosophists, a few were children of his  followers.  
最后，我去圣巴巴拉的Sansum诊所咨询了一位泌尿科医生。他诊断克里希纳患有肾炎。经过六个多星期的精心护理，奎师那慢慢地开始恢复，并进入了六个月的恢复期。当然，他那一年的所有旅行计划都被取消了，但艾莉亚维哈拉作为宿舍的使用是无法取消的。在他病得最严重的时候，必须让大家保持安静。晚上，我们都坐在客厅里做作业，就像在图书馆或修道院一样安静。我们被允许用留声机轻柔地播放古典音乐。来自不同家庭的年轻人能够如此合作，并怀着如此良好的意愿，表现出自发的考虑，这对于一所正是基于这种理想的学校来说，是一个意想不到的先例。有些学生从未听说过克林什，有些是神智学者，还有一些是他的追随者的孩子。

     As Krinsh got better, the young people in the house did not seem  to bother him. He had grown a beard and would sit about in his  bathrobe and look over our activities with increasing interest. He  came out occasionally to chat especially with Jimmy, for whom he  had a particular affinity. Jimmy already had the clear mind of the  mathematician he would become. Some were too shy to speak to him  and others not shy at all. [ believe his recuperation was enhanced by  this mingling with young people. We all felt his quiet observation of  us and in part returned 1t. He had often said that to help someone with  a problem all you had to do was understand it without judgment, to see  it clearly, and in time this understanding would be transmitted to the  other person. His non-verbal self was at its best in such circumstances.  To have had the opportunity to experience that directly was worth a  hundred of his lectures. 
随着克林什的病情好转，房子里的年轻人似乎不再打扰他了。他留了胡子，会穿着浴袍坐在那里，越来越感兴趣地看着我们的活动。他偶尔出来聊天，特别是和吉米聊天，因为他对吉米特别有好感。吉米已经具备了日后成为数学家的清晰头脑。有些人太害羞了，不敢和他说话，有些人一点也不害羞。我相信他和年轻人的交往促进了他的恢复。我们都感到他在默默地注视着我们，也有一部分回心转意。他经常说，要帮助别人解决问题，你所要做的就是不加评判地理解它，清楚地看到它，并及时将这种理解传递给另一个人。在这种情况下，他的非语言自我处于最佳状态。能有机会直接体验到这一点，就抵得上听他讲一百次课。

    Thanks to Louis and Robert the financial end of the school held up in  spite of a ratio of twelve students to eight teachers. There was a great  deal of enthusiasm for the project. It seemed that finally Mrs Besant's  vision was shaping into reality, even though the school had not been  built on Happy Valley land. Although no one realized it then, it would  be another thirty years before the school could move there. 
多亏了路易斯和罗伯特，尽管学校的学生比例是12比8，但学校的财政状况还是保持了下来。人们对这个项目有极大的热情。贝赞特夫人的愿景似乎终于变成了现实，尽管学校并没有建在欢乐谷的土地上。虽然当时没有人意识到，但学校又过了三十年才搬到那里。

    The walnut ranch was still the only source of income for Happy  Valley and it just barely paid expenses each year as the correspondence  between Louis and Mr Robbie showed: 
核桃农场仍然是欢乐谷唯一的收入来源，每年的开销也只能勉强维持，路易斯和罗比先生之间的通信显示:

    October 31st, 1946 
    Dear Louis, 
    I have your letter of the 29th in regard to the proposed expenses on the Happy Valley Nut Factory. 
    Our trouble in blowing the nuts oft the trees will be greatly exceeded by our trouble in blowing the other nuts off the land as soon as the Fifth and Sixth Races begin to move in. 
1946年10月31日
亲爱的路易,
我收到了您29日关于欢乐谷坚果工厂的拟议费用的信。
一旦第五和第六种族开始迁入，我们把坚果从树上吹下来的麻烦将大大超过我们把其他坚果从土地上吹下来的麻烦。

    Financing the school was to become an ever-increasing problem.  Fortunately, Rosalind was adept at finding ways to economize; both  men appreciated that quality in her while they recognized that she  sometimes became overly optimistic in her expectations of people. 
学校的资金问题日益严重。幸运的是，罗莎琳德善于找到省钱的方法;两人都很欣赏她的这种品质，但他们也意识到，她有时对别人的期望过于乐观。

    November 13th, 1946  Dear Louis,  I think you must have heard from Rosalind about employing F  to build the dormitory. Rosalind was at first too enthusiastic and is  now perhaps a little too disillusioned, but anyway I will be quite  content to have Neutra or any other Neutral architect you may  choose. 
1946年11月13日亲爱的路易斯:我想你一定从罗莎琳德那里听说了雇用F来建造宿舍的事。罗莎琳德一开始太热情了，现在可能有点太失望了，但无论如何，我将非常满足于有Neutra或任何其他你可以选择的中立建筑师。

    Rosalind and Krishna weathered the first year of the school, but their  relationship had undergone a change. Nursing him had put an emotional  and physical strain on her. Perhaps they both felt that they had been too  closely confined during the past seven years. The heavy work during  those war years had taken much of Rosalind's vitality. She had begun  to feel Krishna's constant presence and needs taxing. She welcomed  the thought ofa little space and time apart from him. 
罗莎琳德和克里希纳度过了学校的第一年，但他们的关系发生了变化。照顾他给她带来了精神上和身体上的压力。也许他们都觉得在过去的七年里，他们被束缚得太紧了。战争年代繁重的工作耗尽了罗莎琳德的大部分精力。她已经开始感受到奎师那不断的存在，需要放松。她很乐意和他分开一段时间和空间。

    The school rested heavily on her shoulders, although she had no  official title and never took a salary. Dr Ferrando was not able, due  to age, health, and lack of experience to run the organizational end,  although he was a wonderful figure at the helm and in the classroom.  Rosalind also had to oversee the converting of the bath-houses into  dining-room and dormitory space for the second year of the school.  There were now too many students to fit into Arya Vihara. For  Rosalind, the school had become, and was to remain for twenty years,  an eighteen-hour-a-day as Robert was among the first to  job, notice. 
虽然她没有正式的头衔，也从未拿过薪水，但学校的重担还是压在了她的肩上。由于年龄、健康状况和缺乏经验，费尔南多博士无法管理组织部门，尽管他在掌舵和课堂上都是一个出色的人物。在学校的第二年，罗莎琳德还必须监督将浴室改造成餐厅和宿舍的工作。现在学生太多了，艾莉亚・维哈拉坐不下。对罗莎琳德来说，学校已经变成了，而且还将持续20年，每天18个小时，因为罗伯特是最早工作的人之一。

    August 1947  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Don't work too hard nor worry too much . . . last year we had 12  pupils and no dormitory and this year we shall have 12 dormitories  and no pupils which makes a perfect average . . . 
    The dormitories were finished in time for the opening of the second year, leaving Louis and Robert with still more mortgages to pay off.  They were indeed the angels behind the scenes. Louis wrote to Robert  in January 1948: 
    Dear Robert, 
最亲爱的罗齐:
不要太辛苦，也不要太担心…去年我们有12个学生，没有宿舍，今年我们将有12个宿舍，没有学生，这使得一个完美的平均…
宿舍在第二年开学时完工了，路易斯和罗伯特还有更多的抵押贷款要偿还。他们确实是幕后的天使。1948年1月，路易斯写信给罗伯特:
亲爱的罗伯特,

    . . I note your fear as to my getting to heaven through the  Happy Valley back door. My idea of heavenly developments on  Happy Valley would be if we raised forty tons of walnuts this year  and got about thirty cents per pound. But so far we are very short  of rain indeed. There was an Indian chief who came to town from  Oregon the other day, and he caused a very minor sprinkle in Los  Angeles. I hope that he is still actively dancing around a spot in the  ground and that Old Man Coyote will hear his invocations. 
。。我注意到你对我从欢乐谷后门进入天堂的恐惧。我对欢乐谷的美好发展设想是，如果我们今年能收获40吨核桃，每磅能赚到30美分。但到目前为止，我们确实很缺雨。前几天有个印第安酋长从俄勒冈州来到这里，他在洛杉矶引起了一场小雨。我希望他仍然活跃地在地上的一个地方跳舞，老狼会听到他的呼唤。

    Now for spiritually minded people, it is a shame that the subject  of money intrudes itself at every point. You know that together we  owe $4000 on a mortgage on the second building. [ am intending to  clear up my share sometime this year since I do not like the smell of  mortgages. I venture to say that you feel the same. 
对于有灵性的人来说，金钱的话题无处不在，这是一件可耻的事。你知道我们一共欠了4000美元的第二栋楼的抵押贷款。我不喜欢抵押贷款的味道，打算在今年某个时候把我的那部分清掉。我冒昧地说，你也有同感。

    . may [ suggest in the spirit of the deep friendship between  us, that both of us, in our Wills, protect the future of the School ⌒  just in case Karma uses the actor's wooden hook and yanks us away  from the stage before we meet? 
我是否可以以我们之间深厚友谊的精神建议，我们双方，在遗嘱中，保护学校的未来，以防卡玛在我们见面之前用演员的木钩把我们从舞台上拽走?

