PART TWO  PERSONAL MEMORIES 
    Truth is a Pathless Land  (1931-47)  
 
                   
 
  B ?¡ã . L g  ?¡ã. .  - Cs wo  T y . 3  u -  i -  : ' ?¡ã  : & i  i  i  " 
     13 
    A Cuckoo in the Other Bird's Nest 
    During my early childhood Raja was in poor health. He had a series  of operations between which he had to spend much time travelling  on behalf of the work he was doing, editing and publishing Krishna's  talks, and organizing the immensely complicated camps for thousands  of people, at Ojai in the spring and at Ommen every summer. 
    Although endowed with a fine physique and natural fitness, unlike  Krishna who was compelled to spend a great portion of his life building  himself up physically, since his youth Raja had avoided any of the  precautions that would ensure continued good health. He disdained  exercise, drank too much coffee, led irregular hours and ate sporadically,  either too much or too little. He may well have been put off by the  almost ritualistic adherence to physical health measures that Krishna  insisted upon for himself and tried to instil in those close to him and  by Rosalind's insistence on a proper diet. But Raja had displayed a  rebellious disregard for his health long before meeting either of them,  as warnings in early letters to him from Leadbeater testify. 
    When Krishna returned to Ojai in October 1931, and first saw me  he surprised Rosalind by asking, ?(r)Do you think it is Nitya?' 
    He took me on with a fierce protectiveness, hovering like a lion over  my crib and never allowing any stranger to touch me. It was he and  not Raja who did all the things that most fathers of that era left to their  W1ves Or nurses. 
    Rosalind divided her time between Krishna in Ojai and Raja, who  was recovering from a sinus operation, in Hollywood. Neither man  was left alone in her absence. Erma and Sophia took care of Raja and  one of the Star workers, Hazel Crowe, who lived in a small guest  house behind Arya Vihara, unobtrusively provided Krishna with his  meals when Rosalind wasn't there. 
    Besides the two men in Rosalind's life there was me, a few months'  old baby to take around with her and care for. It must have been easier  for her in Hollywood, in a well-heated house and with a mother and  sister to help. Arya Vihara still had no heat, only the fireplaces, and the 
    115  
 
                   
 
    cold, dark winter mornings in the large empty house were not entirely  pleasant. Krishna, however, was a warm and loving companion to her  and did his best to be helpful. He liked to tell me in later years exactly  how helpful he had been, changing my diapers, rocking my crib while  Rosalind had an afternoon siesta, giving me oil rubs in the warm midday  sun, being a true Indian amma or nurse, at least so he felt. There is no  doubt that he must have spent a considerable amount of time with me  for since my earliest memories he filled a special and unique place in  my heart, not as a parent but certainly as much more than a nurse. |  understood at a very young age that the depth and scope of affection  in our circle was not related to a kinship of blood or legal ties. 
    Officially for most of that winter of 1931, Krishna declared himself  to be in samadhi. A reporter had asked him if he were Christ and he  replied that he was ¡Ð in the true sense; a somewhat puzzling admission  in one who wished to discourage followers, some of whom, including  Lady Emily, were beginning to wonder if his life were an escape from  responsibility, for he managed to live always in beautiful places without  facing the sort of problems that those who work hard to support their  families must face. 
    Krishna replied that it was not an escape to avoid plunging into  unnecessary relationships, jealousies and ways of life. He had deliberately  avoided the entanglements of family, along with the necessity of earning  a living, though he still believed he could have made a lot of money - even as a beggar. This disclaimer of family existence would have baffled  any objective observer of his life over those next few months. 
    Spring came and with it the Ojai Camp. Suddenly Arya Vihara was  full of close friends, the excitement of hopefully uplifted spirits waiting  for Krishna's words. My mother slept in the large front bedroom and 1  in an attached glassed-in porch. Raja did not share these quarters when  in Ojai, but had similar rooms facing the lawn, separated by a long back  hallway. Krishna still slept, as he always would, in Pine Cottage. Arya  Vihara returned to monastic quietude at night, with Raja working as was  his habit well past midnight in his office, guests and devotees departing  at an early hour. 
    Krishna was particularly elated after his first talk that spring. There  would always be great ups and downs in the flow of his magnetic  power. Some people would come away from his talks shaking their  heads in wonder, unsure what he had actually said but quite bowled  over by it. Sometimes just one sentence would strike an individual and  open for him a vital new insight. But Krishna always knew when a talk 
    116  
 
                   
A Cuckoo in the Other Bird's Nest 
    had been particularly inspired. Even if he said afterwards, as he usually  did, ?(r)I don't remember anything about it, how was it??¡À we could tell  by the glow on his face, the private smile, that he knew exactly what  he had done and how his audience had taken it. As he grew older his  energy would lapse after a few hours and he would need to be alone for  a long rest, but when he was still young he was often too stimulated to  be alone. It was almost as if another self had awakened or come to life  in him. 
    Rosalind remembered that first talk in the spring of 1932 for a reason  of her own. She remembered his excitement and restlessness when they  returned to Arya Vihara. He was full of laughter and sparkle as he went  off to his cottage, but when the big house had settled into darkness he  came back and into her bed. It was not comfort for a sick child that  he was seeking now. 
    What followed then assumed all the force of the inevitable, though  at the time it took her by surprise. Yet she came to realize that he  had been playing the role of her own child's father for some months  and had lavished on her all the care and solicitude of a passionate and  fond husband ¡Ð a role from which Raja appeared to have withdrawn,  enabling Rosalind to slip into a love affair that would last for more  than twenty-five years. 
    Assuming that he was aware of the condition of Rosalind and Raja's  marriage, and allowing for his unconventional attitude toward marriage  in general, that its vows had little meaning to him, Krishna's actions are  understandable, but not excusable in the context of his relationship with  Raja, who had given his life to helping him. Nor were they excusable in  the context of the chaste image he continued to project and was careful  not to tarnish, although it meant living a sub-rosa life. He would continue  to affirm publicly that true love does not distinguish between human  relationships but is boundlessly there for everyone. Yet privately over  the coming years, he would frequently and eloquently declare his love  to Rosalind and insist that ?(r)what 1s between us is the most important  thing in our lives'. 
    The miracle is that so few, if any, seemed to have suspected what was  going on. That this ?(r)perfect' being could have such a relationship would  have been a reductio ad absurdum to the Theosophists, who would have  been shocked enough had Krishna entered into a legitimate marriage,  and the new non-Theosophical followers would continue to place him  on a celibate pedestal. But there was at least one exception, Mme de  Manziarly, who in 1938 heard her daughter Mima say, ?(r)How charming  and sweet, the way Krishna loves Rosalind and helps her with Radha,' 
    117      replied, ?(r)Hmmph! A cuckoo in the other bird's nest.?¡À Mima Porter told  me this in 1984, explaining that when her mother startled her with such  a comment she pushed it to the back of her mind and did not think  about it once until future events reminded her. 
    Rosalind, too, had a natural aura of innocence which protected  her throughout her life from suspicion, at-least among her closest  friends. Even Raja suspected nothing until he was actually told twenty  years later. Yet the discomfort and sense of isolation that he would  feel increasingly to be his lot might well have been spawned in this  shadowed area of their lives. 
    At the age of thirty-seven, Krishna had experienced his first sexual  relationship, and, it 1s reasonable to believe, with someone he had  secretly loved for many years. The new and joyful exuberance that  he often expressed in those years was naturally taken by his followers  to reflect his transcendent spiritual condition, an expression of the  enlightened mystic, rather than of the happy lover. 
    In those early days, their times alone together were few. Rosalind  remembers one summer night, as she was sitting with Krishna on the  roof at Arya Vihara and looking at the starlight on his face, how she  was struck by the beauty of him as he told her of his love for her. She  had always been deeply moved by poetry and he was a natural poet. 
    Yet, when one loses through death a young, idealized and unrealized  love, it can stand in the way ofa complete love with another. Rosalind  would always feel that Nitya had been her special love; but that love  had never been consummated by so much as a kiss and would remain  a romantic ideal. Her love for Raja had been based on a solid bond of  friendship and perhaps she had not been totally dismayed when her  marriage was re-established on that basis. Krishna provided all that  was lacking in her marriage, physical love and the warm, attentive  companionship that she had not found with Raja. 
    While she and Raja would always feel a profound respect for each  other in their sharing of ideals and values, the trivial mechanics of  daily life had tended to pull them apart. She was a morning person;  he worked late and slept well into the morning. She was active and he  was sedentary. They did not share the same sense of humour. None of  these things alone was enough to destroy a marriage, but added to their  lack of physical love created a considerable void. As the years passed  Raja would become more and more the far point of the triangle. 
    Krishna and Raja returned to India in December 1932. They had not  seen Mrs Besant for two years. In spite of all the dissension between 
    118  
 
                   
 
  A Cuckoo in the Other Bird's Nest 
    him and the Theosophists, Krishna was greeted warmly with garlands  and a welcoming committee and invited to lecture on the Compound.  Mrs Besant was in a sad state. Her memory was failing badly, but she  knew him and Raja and showed them great affection. Krishna felt quite  out of place now at Adyar, asserting that they did not want him  around. According to Rukmini, George Arundale had told Krishna he  was very welcome at Adyar, but if he could not refrain from making  fun of the Theosophists and being generally disruptive he should leave.  Krishna interpreted this as a definite shutting out and would continue  to make a point of this. 
    Throughout my childhood I would hear antagonistic comments about  George, not only from Krinsh but also in a milder way from those in  our circle who aligned themselves with Krinsh against the Theosophists  and also from those like the Logans who remained Theosophists but still  had a critical though never unkind attitude toward a few individuals. 1  suspect that all these attitudes stemmed from Krinsh's strong assertions  that George Arundale was responsible for his banishment from Adyar.  They never saw that this exile was brought on by his own behaviour  and was in fact self-imposed. 
    One day Jinarajadasa took Raja aside and mildly reprimanded him  for letting Krishna get so out of hand.  ?(r)Who am I', Raja replied with some annoyance, ?(r)that I can tell him  how to behave?' 
    Jinarajadasa then told Raja it was a pity he should go on with Krishna.  ?(r)If you would leave him and come back to Adyar, we would make you  the Vice-President here.' I heard these same words, in retrosopect, forty  years later when I first met Rukmini's brother, Yagna, at Adyar. 
    ?(r)We Theosophists lost a valuable leader when your father went with  Krishnaji,?¡À he told me. ?(r)He should come back, even now, to Adyar.'  But it had already been too late in 1932. My father was too committed  aman. 
    When Leadbeater came from Australia to be with Mrs Besant at her  deathbed, and then fell ill himself, he heard that Krishna, on his last  visit, had referred to those at Adyar as exploiters, people who influenced  others for their own purposes. ?(r)Am I an exploiter?' the old man asked  Rukmini, who was taking care of him.! Leadbeater died the following  year with his question unanswered, at least by Krishna, who never saw  him again. 
    In April 1933 Krishna and Raja took their final leave of Mrs Besant.  She died five months later and for the next fifty years Krishna would not  set foot in Adyar. With George Arundale as the next President, his ties 
    119      with the Theosophical Society were completely severed. His 'memory  of a past so heavily dependent on Theosophy was, he claimed, wiped  clean. This claim was fundamental to his interpretation of the free mind  which had been evolving since his rejection of his role as the vehicle.  In order for the mind to be liberated, there can be no psychological  memory of all the sticky miseries that society imposes on those who  seek respectability. Total loss of memory also entitled him to a claim  of originality in all his teachings, yet they bear a marked similarity to  many of the Upanishads and the teachings of the Buddha, in both of  which he was thoroughly well versed in his youth at Adyar. Of course  there are those who will say that there is only one truth and the truth  always sounds the same. 
    In the summer of 1933, Rosalind took me with her to Ommen, where she  met Krishna and Raja, returning from India. As usual, Raja was totally  absorbed in his work and also suffered intermittently from painful bouts  of rheumatism. But there were many friends around who took a special  interest in me, and Rosalind had a plentiful supply of helping hands. 
    Even at Ommen, Krishna would sometimes ask Rosalind to join  him in his cottage and, although she complied, it made her nervous.  Secrecy was much more in his interest than in hers, yet he seemed  undaunted by the possibility of discovery. His attitude was realistic.  One day Annie Vigeveno, a camp member, had been asked to go  to Krishna's cabin to clean it. She assumed he was out, and was  sweeping up the sitting-room when she heard Rosalind and Krishna  talking in the bedroom and remembers feeling a little surprised at  some of Krishna's uncomplimentary comments about people. She was  not otherwise disturbed by the situation, assuming Krishna must be  getting a massage from Rosalind; she did not allow any other possibility  to enter her mind. She admits she would have thought it all very strange  had they been anyone else.? 
    Rosalind did not feel guilty towards Raja for she felt he had given  her symbolic freedom. She evidently had not concerned herself about  Krishna's feelings of guilt, if he were capable of such. That summer  something moved Krishna to write a letter to Raja which he first gave  Rosalind to read. She found it beautiful and was touched by what it  said. In it Krishna explained that he loved Rosalind and her baby and  wanted to take full responsibility for them. And privately to her, he  said they would be married and go and live on some island. She is  certainly not the first woman in the world to have heard those words,  and it is an indication of her naivet¡§| that she gave them any credence 
    120  
 
                   
A Cuckoo in the Other Bird's Nest 
    at all. When Krishna returned from this mission, he said that Raja had  hurt him by laughing in his face and brushing aside the whole idea.  Raja might well have asked how he proposed to take care of anyone  else when he could not even take care of himself. Krishna must have  made it clear to Rosalind that there would be no such alternative, as  living openly together without marriage, and Rosalind too felt that  their sexual relationship was their own business and not that of the  world at large. She saw Krishna as a man and a lover before she saw  him as a world teacher; she had always had trouble seeing him in that  role. It was perhaps the very fact that he was not remarkable to her  that made it possible for her to love him ¡Ð and for him to love her,  in the way in which he did. 
    Rosalind did not question at this time that Krishna really had given  Raja the letter. That Raja never spoke to her about it and behaved toward  her exactly as before, with no apparent reaction, might have made most  people wonder ¡Ð yet it is characteristic of Rosalind to have overlooked  this and merely to have assumed that Raja was not upset by what he had  learned, and had quietly accepted it. When I questioned Raja fifty years  later he was certain there had been no letter (if there had been it would  undoubtedly have been found in his archives for he never threw away  the slightest scrap). Raja remembered only a vague remark by Krishna,  which he took as one of his quixotic ideas, never guessing the true  nature of his and Rosalind's relationship. Because Krishna had known  Rosalind first, and because Raja recognized that there was a special  feeling between them that existed before his marriage, he felt that it  was not his prerogative to question a relationship which he assumed  to be quite innocent. 
    When the talks at Ommen were over, Krishna was scheduled to go to  Norway. Raja, still very involved with business at Ommen, could not  accompany Krishna. So, quite naturally, Rosalind went instead, leaving  me in the care of my father and some very devoted ladies at Ommen,  Anneke Korndorfer and Annie Vigeveno. That was the first time my  mother had left me except with my grandmother. It was implicitly  understood by those around Raja and Rosalind that their lives were  dedicated to a high purpose which involved taking care of Krishna and  for this reason it is unlikely that anyone questioned these arrangements.  The love affair continued in Norway more ardently than ever. 
    On returning to California in late summer, Raja helped Erma and Sophia  to buy a house on Gower Street below the Hollywood foothills. He  established the Star Publishing Trust office on an adjacent property. 
    121  
 
                   
 
    This neighbourhood bordered the land of the former Theosophical  headquarters and was still heavily populated by Theosophists as well  as those devoted to Krishna. Raja spent more and more of his time  in Hollywood, content with the companionship of Sophia and Erma,  as well as numerous friends. If he was unconsciously aware of the  odd-man-out position that was his at Ojai, he would have found it  psychologically painful to bring the implications to the surface. Such  a recognition would have involved a departure from his commitment  not only to Mrs Besant but to himself and place him and his work  in an untenable position, both publicly and privately. He was well  aware of many contradictions in Krishna but had for some years been  convinced of Krishna's friendship toward him. To Raja friendship  assumed a reciprocity of loyalty and affection, too deep and too strong  to require affirmation, and, like Mrs Besant who was herself too truthful  to always perceive the untruth in another, Raja was blinded by his own  high ideals. 
    Rosalind's letters to friends at this time give evidence of the closeness  of the three of them and of the structure of their lives, strange in  conventional terms but evidently not to any of them. I doubt if they  ever wondered what other people thought. But then they didn't have  to because within their own extensive circle they were above reproach  or criticism. To all appearances they were living a charmed life, full  of interesting people, travel and acceptance in any kind of society they  chose. But none of them had the usual attitude toward society. All  three of them were non-conformists and disdained the very idea of  being considered ?(r)respectable'. Indeed Krishna considered the desire  for respectability the prime root of unhappiness. 
    122  
 
                   
14 
    Childhood in the Sage Garden 
    My earliest complete memory is of lying in my crib at Arya Vihara and  smelling smoke. I sensed rather than saw the shape ofa figure through  the window but saw clearly an intermittent red glow like a fire ember. I  was in the front bedroom, my crib near the open screened window, for  it was a warm dark July night. The dining-room seemed a vast distance  away ¡Ð beyond the living-room and the large entrance hall. I could hear  adult voices and above these I called for my mother, who came quickly  as she always did, for [ was not inclined to false alarms. But that night  she did not notice the smell of smoke (she had never had a keen sense of  smell) and thought I was imagining things when I described the glowing  light. I doubt anyone had ever had the effrontery to smoke in front of  Krinsh, so I had probably never encountered a cigarette or cigar. The  next night I called again and this time my mother believed me. The  others belicved neither of us. My mother told me many years later  that she had decided if no one believed us and she became convinced |  was in real danger she would have taken the car and run oft with  me. | suspect both my father and Krinsh would have considered her  hysterical had they known what was going on in her mind. But the  Lindbergh kidnapping only a few years before was still a tragic horror  story in many a young mother's mind and my mother was aware that  in Krinsh's large public there were a few who were not so balanced.  Only one friend, Major Dev Meyers, finally took the trouble to look  under the window, where he found cigar ashes. He watched for several  nights and eventually caught the man, a poor transient with a Peeping 
    Tom record. 
    Aside from that one, my childhood memories are an unchronologically  woven tapestry of lovely places and loving people. The memories of these  people cluster like iron filings around places, without reference to time  and give no more weight to the living than to the dead. 
    Foremost were the Logans, who drove across the country from  Pennsylvania twice a year in a big Packard with a silver owl sitting  proudly on the front. They came for two months in the spring and 
    123  
 
                   
 
   
    again in the autumn and our lives were closely intertwined. Rosalind  had first met Sara Logan in 1926 in India. Almost immediately they  had developed a very close friendship. 
    Sara always wore flowing white dresses and shawls and had silky  white hair, and penetrating blue eyes softened by a gentle smile.  Robert, or Mr Robbie as we all called him, was more formidable,  at least to a small child. He dressed with exact appropriateness for the  occasion, with knickerbockers and visored cap for golf and hiking,  white ducks for badminton, and velvet trousers and jacket for dinners  at Arya Vihara. Robert and Sara bought the former guest house behind  Arya Vihara with its three or four acres of land and two small cottages.  They called the big house Saro Vihara and furnished it with Indian rugs,  pottery and baskets which they collected each year as they drove through  the reservations. 
    Robert Logan was a direct descendant of James Logan, the Quaker  secretary of Willlam Penn. Ironically James Logan made his fortune  in furs while Robert's father, Sydney Algernon Logan was one of the  founders of the Anti-Vivisection Society, to which he left his fortune.  Robert went even further than his father as an animal benefactor. He  was also a vegetarian and he and Sara campaigned against the use of  leather products or furs. They had found many kindred spirits in the  Theosophical Society, but Robert's ardent pacifism was an ideal passed  down through the Logan Quaker heritage. 
    While Robert in his later years would say that Sara had the type  of beauty that becomes deeper with age, he often liked to describe a  moment in his youth at a d¡§|butante ball in Philadelphia where two of  the most beautiful women he was ever to see were standing as young  d¡§|butantes at the top of the staircase, Carolyn Hastings, a stunning  brunette, and Sara Wetherill, an equally stunning blonde. They could  not have imagined at that moment that they would one day share an  interest in Krishnamurti. 
    Robert was born into circumstances which enabled him never to have  to work, but with his Quaker background he was expected to attain a  profession and at least for a while to prove he could live by it. He and  Sara had once lived in a walk-up, cold-water flat while he practised  law in New York and ate forty cent lunches at Delmonico's. He had  joined the Players' Club and in later years told stories of his encounters  there with the elderly Mark Twain. Eventually they moved to the  nearly two-hundred-acre estate near Philadelphia, which they called  Sarobia and which Sara's father had given them for a wedding present.  Robert gave up the law and became a gentleman farmer and scholar. 
    124  
 
                   
Childhood in the Sage Garden 
    He also wrote fine poetry, translated the Divine Comedy into beautiful  English, sculpted, and managed his stock portfolios. Eventually both  Sara and Robert turned away from society to pursue a humanitarian and  spiritual path. They also helped to promote artists and actors and, before  their involvement with Krishna, supported a summer stock theatre at  Sarobia. They housed innumerable people in need under their roof,  some elderly and displaced who stayed permanently. 
    Behind the lawns at Arya Vihara was a bricked patio, with a trumpet  vine trellis, tiered rock work, and a rectangular lily pond, all of which  had been given by Sara, who loved to design gardens. She also made  a croquet lawn below the terrace and, although she did not play, she  had a concrete badminton court built on the edge of the orchard. 
    One Easter my mother brought me a small duckling. That it was  missing an oil duct almost led to fatal mishap for both the duck and  me, for it was unable to waterproofits feathers. Every time it went in  the pool it sank. With my three-year-old logic I thought it simply didn't  know how to swim. I persistently tried to keep it afloat. As I couldn't  swim either, it was a good thing that there was always someone around.  The duck and I would both plunge headlong towards the bottom of the  pool. One day Mr Robbie thought he was seeing me trying to drown  the duck for he did not understand about its oil duct problem -indeed  at that moment none of us did. 
    ?(r)I clearly saw her trying to drown the poor thing.' 
    ?(r)Oh no! Radha would never do that. She was trying to save it.'  My mother replied braving his anger in my defence. But no amount  of explaining by my mother as to my motives, which she at least  understood, could assuage his anger at me. Mr Robbie would never  tolerate any kind of cruelty or even thoughtlessness to animals and  in his view children were often the worst offenders and not really  worth knowing until they were taught to be civilized. Perhaps under  the influenice of Sara, he tolerated me better than most and we would  one day love each other very much, but for three days he wouldn't  talk to me or to my mother because of her defence of me. By the  greatest of luck, only a few days later, he read in a magazine about a  missing oil duct in another duck and most graciously apologized. When  it came to squeezing frogs or srogs as I called them, even Mr Robbie  had to recognize that [ was only guilty of an overwhelming love for  these creatures and with great patience he eventually convinced me that  I should show a little less passion toward them. I loved Sara, who unlike  Mr Robbie was never strict and spent a great deal of time entertaining a  small child. Her own daughter, Deborah, who was about my mother's 
    125      age, was tragically separated from Sara and Robert in those years But  that was a story I would learn about later. 
    There were many people around us who had suffered tragedy and  had found comfort and renewal in Krinsh's words. Some understood  that a path starting with doubt and leading to enquiry and search was in  itself the goal; that there was no answer beyond the direct and immediate  individual experience towards which Krinsh in his talks tried to clear  the way. The Logans were among those who had bridged the ravine  between Krinsh and Theosophy, as had my aunt Erma. They seemed  to find no contradiction in the Theosophical precepts of universal  brotherhood, alleviating suffering and Krinsh's view that freedom lay  in an unconditioned mind free of past thoughts, memories and beliefs.  Whether or not they believed in the Masters and the occult areas of  Theosophy they would have found irrelevant to discuss. 
    Much as I loved being with my grandmother in Hollywood and  missed her in my long absences from her, life at Ojai was better. My  cousin David, Grace and Willie's son, lived there. He was just a year  younger than me and we were as close as brother and sister. He spent  most of the time at our house when we were in OQjai. [ have often  wondered what life was like for David when we weren't there, for his  world became so centred around ours. His father Willie managed the  ranch and David and I used to follow him about and ride with him on  the tractor. We were probably a colossal nuisance, but he never made  us feel that. Willie was immensely strong and could easily carry both  of us, each tucked under an arm. No matter how tired he was or how  long his day, his laughter always came easily, bubbling up through his  sturdy chest like clear spring water. 
    Willie Weidemann was the son of Frederick Weidemann, a famous  opera singer in Vienna in the early part of this century. As a young  man Willie often sang in the chorus of the Vienna opera. One of his  brothers followed in the father's footsteps to become an opera singer  himself. But not Willie. He turned against the high living of pre-First  World War Vienna, vowing to himself, and he never broke this vow,  that he would not touch alcohol. He went to Agricultural College in  Denmark, got his degree in grass and grain agronomy and then took  off for America, where he found a job training horses in South Dakota.  Eventually he made his way to Ojai, where he worked with Marvel,  Rosalind's and Grace's older sister, on her chicken ranch. There he first  saw Grace when he helped her from the rumble seat of a car. It was  love at first sight. In time Raja asked him to take charge of the orange  grove at Arya Vihara and the Weidemann family moved there into one 
    126  
 
                   
Childhood in the Sage Garden 
    of the houses on Mr Robbie's land next door. Raja needed Willie's help  in the office as well, and Willie, with his ability to learn anything to  perfection, became not only business manager but Raja's trusted friend  and confidant. 
    Although he was at the core of all of our lives, Willie never had any  interest in the philosophical side of life around Krinsh. He helped in all  the financial and practical matters, the mailing lists, the books, even  sitting behind the table to sell the publications at the talks. He told  me once many years later, after he had retired, that the reason he had  no interest in what Krinsh had to say was because he had witnessed  early on the great discrepancy between what Krinsh said and what he  did. Willie never commented on this to anyone as he did not consider  it his business but quietly made up his mind that he would find his  own path, as he always had ¡Ð and indeed as Krinsh himself publicly  recommended. 
    In those early years neither was I in the least interested in what Krinsh  said publicly. It was a wonder to me how several thousand people could  sit spellbound by his words. His private behaviour was more intriguing.  I also sensed with gratitude that his actions often drew on himself the  attention and the irritation of my parents which might otherwise have  fallen on me. Krinsh's habit of eating only half of everything annoyed  my mother. There were halves of bananas, apples, pieces of biscuits or  toast always left for her to dispose of. Nothing was ever thrown out  or wasted so someone had to be found to eat the other half. 
    My mother too had her own way of being irritating. I think she was  by nature a gambler for she loved to take chances. She was lucky almost  always in the outcome and won at games of luck. Once on an ocean  voyage, Sara had staked her in a bridge game and Rosalind had returned  the stake tenfold. This luck was particularly irritating to my father, who  seemed to have very little luck of his own. He was painfully meticulous  about everything, a trait in itself annoying to some of us, yet he was  constantly plagued by the serious consequences of others' errors while  my mother sailed through such misfortunes without even noticing. Her  luck would show up often in her driving. She certainly would have  deserved some of the tickets she never got although she was always  an excellent driver and never had an accident. She would not allow  enough time for anything but still managed to get it all done and arrive  almost on time (she considered a consistent ten minutes late on time  for her). Krinsh was always consulting his Patek Philippe gold pocket  watch, given him by Mr Robbie, to emphasize her lack of punctuality.  Krinsh was never late for anything (unless it was due to my mother). 
    127  
 
                   
 
    Dish washing was often a cause of considerable contention between her  and Krinsh. First she stacked and balanced the dishes in the sink in such  a way that they should have inevitably toppled over ¡Ð but never did,  a habit we attributed to her gambling spirit. She then rushed through  the washing in a slap-dash fashion while Krinsh and I dried. He would  search for particles of food and hand back the plate. Irritation increased  on both sides and the whole routine became underlined by excited,  half-joking half-angry chatter. My father had long since departed for  his office. He felt no obligation whatsoever to join in this particular  chore and looked on such skirmishes as intolerably petty. 
    His causes for irritation with Krinsh seemed, even to me, more  serious. Krinsh loved to promise things to people. He could never say  no to a request. Sometimes he would even offer to loan money. Of  course he had no cash and no bank account either. I doubt if he ever  wrote a cheque in his life. Krinsh had no concept of money. A thousand  dollars meant no more than twenty. My father would then either have to  write the cheque or explain to the supplicant that there were no funds for  loans. Even I realized that money was scarce throughout my childhood.  My mother ran the household on a strict budget, made all my clothes  and Krinsh's and my father's shirts and pyjamas. I learned very young  that it-was best never to ask for anything, but neither did I feel the  need to do so. Life at Arya Vihara was fun. We didn't need toys or  expensive diversions. 
    Mary Gray's School of the Open Gate was still next door to Arya  Vihara, although Erma no longer had anything to do with it. David  and I both went there, but my attendance must have been somewhat  irregular with all the travelling we did in those days. It was Krinsh  who usually got me ready for school and taught me how to tie my  shoelaces in the English schoolboy manner, with one end looped under  so they never came undone. We also polished our shoes together every  afternoon before dinner. In spite of all this emphasis on shoes, I never  really liked them and as soon as [ had a choice wore sandals or went  barefoot. Krinsh himself usually wore his Indian sandals or sneakers  around Arya Vihara. When [ was very small he called me Tum-Tums.  Happily he modified this to Kittums by the time it mattered and it  remained that ever after. He made an earnest effort to share with me his  interest in learning languages and we would have a regular half-hour  of French Linguaphone records every morning before school. He was  not a good language teacher for he failed to give me any indication  of whether my pronunciation was improving. He would only say, ?(r)No,  no, not like that,?¡À and the lesson would end with a tolerant smile that 
    128  
 
                   
 
  Childhood in the Sage Garden 
    was far from encouraging. The same method was applied to my yoga  lessons and I have found both these disciplines particularly difficult ever  since. But of all my adults Krinsh was definitely the most fun. He was  never cross or strict, always loving and usually willing to play. 
    Arya Vihara was its own island; we never heard what the rest of  QOjai thought of it. But there must have been those who wondered  who we were and what we were up to. We were not even part of  the Theosophical community, which Krinsh firmly eschewed in those  days. But nothing about our life seemed peculiar to me, even later  when some of my school friends hinted that it was. Of course, in  the early days most of my companions were the children of Krinsh's  followers so I had no problems. He always joined David and me and  our friends on the lawn for hide and seek. I was very proud to say that  as well as a Mummy and Daddy I had a Krinsh, which was something  no one else seemed to have. 
    Wild animals played a frequent part in our life. One day Krinsh  brought home three baby opossums whose mother had been killed by  a car. We fed them with a medicine dropper and they hung by their  tails from the wire cage top, in time growing large enough to send  on their own way in the world. I realized that wild animals were only  visitors and not permanent members of our household, but I became  keenly attached to them nevertheless. We once found a baby skunk in  the garden and it became a pet for many weeks; more affectionate than  our cat, 1t snuggled against my neck and I loved it, odour and all. One  morning it was gone from its little house set on an earth bed in the patio.  The skunk odour was strong around the house all night. We could see  the traces of its tiny feet digging from the inside and the large marks of  its mother's feet digging from the outside to reclaim her lost baby. 
    My father loved animals but he was also very fastidious and did not  enjoy my little ducklings running over his bed or a puppy wetting his  office rug. Only then did I encounter the irritation that he sometimes  turned on Krinsh, yet I was never intimidated by him, for there was a  reasonableness in his anger and it always subsided as soon as the cause  for it was removed. 
    There were constant visitors. One who had a very special place in  our lives for over fifty years was Blanche Matthias. She was a fine  poet, an art critic, and had a great talent for bringing together good  combinations of people. She extended her warmth and generosity to  three generations of our family. Blanche had been introduced to Krinsh  before I was born by Mima Porter, the eldest de Manziarly sister, who  was now the widow of an American. She was the only one of the de 
    129  
 
                   
 
    Manziarlys to marry. Blanche wrote her recollections about this first  meeting with Krinsh: 
    My friend led me through a large citrus grove, past a good-sized  house, to a small one-room ?(r)shack'. I was asked to remove my shoes,  and leaving them outside I went alone into the shaded room. Waiting  there, sitting quietly on the floor, was the most beautiful being I had  ever seen. He was as shy as I was and I do not remember one word  of our conversation or if we spoke at all. 
    I left him with the certainty that there was something in life I had  not suspected. Something other than writing and music and art - something other than Christianity and white skins.! 
    It was Blanche who initiated a series of summers in Carmel. There 
    she introduced us (really Krinsh) to her friends; the poet Robinson 
    Jeffers, the writer Erskine Scott Wood and, the photographer Edward  Weston among others. Blanche also arranged and provided for our  accommodation.  On 17 July 1934 Rosalind wrote: 
    Darling Blanche, 
    Yesterday we all decided considering many things that if it would  really suit your convenience we would rather come to Carmel in  September . . . Krishnaji thinks Raja should have a month free from  work first so that his mind will be fresh for the book they are going  to do in Carmel. 
    .. . As to rooms: you are all much too kind in your arrangements  but we do not really need so many rooms. If Krishnaji has his bedroom  and one other room where they can work we thought it would be  better if we were all together in the hotel ¡Ð otherwise I could never  be with them and help them if the baby were alone, asleep, etc. So  ifI could have a room for baby and me, Raja a room, it would be  perfect. Please do not do this if it means turning anyone out of the  hotel . . . 
    Much love from us both,  ROSALIND 
    The hotel referred to was Peter Pan Lodge in the Carmel Highlands  which, unhappily for the many who loved it, burned down about thirty  years ago. We were to spend many summers there. 
    Rosalind could not have known when she wrote this letter that her 
    130  
 
                   
Childhood in the Sage Garden 
    and Krishna's rooms would be adjacent, each with its own little balcony 
    and that Krishna would take the tremendous risk of jumping Errol Flynn 
    style between the two to come into her room at night. 
    In view of this, his apparent concern for Raja being rested and in good  frame of mind to help with the book shows how comfortably Krishna  situated himself in the middle of that marriage. He also displayed a  father's protective instinct toward Raja's baby. One night carrying me  down the stairs at the Lodge, Krinsh slipped and fell and everyone  present noticed, and commented for years after, how he protected me  at any cost to himself. 
    Vivid memories of Carmel still linger; Peter Pan Lodge and Wendy  who ran it ¡Ð Tinkerbell the cat, the seagull with a broken wing that we  tried to repair. Every night there was clear potassium broth for dinner  with a bit of parsley floating in it and iced celery and carrot sticks. I  don't remember what came after, but undoubtedly they went to great  pains to provide good vegetarian fare. 
    It was very much Krinsh's and my mother's time together. I can see  him sitting on the edge of her bed and massaging cold cream on to her  face. She always dressed well and carefully and took care of her face and  hair, but had she not done so he would certainly have seen to it that she  did. He must have been very strong for he carried me everywhere when  I got tired of scrambling after them over the rocky points and tide pools  of Point Lobos and the pine-sheltered trails on the hill behind Peter Pan.  Where my father was on these occasions I do not know. He is not part  of my memories in Carmel. Those summers that he came there with  us, he must have spent mostly in his room working on manuscripts.  It would have been uncharacteristic of him to accompany Krinsh, my  mother and me on our walks. Evenings, too, he would have been  working alone in his room after they all retired and early mornings he  would, as was his custom, sleep late having been up working half the  night. It is Krinsh that I remember vividly, laughing often, particularly  when he was with my mother. Our world then seemed flooded with  joy and gentleness ¡Ð and love. 
    131  
 
                   
15 
    Beyond the Garden 
    Although Raja had some devoted workers in the Hollywood office he  ran a one-man show and made himself responsible for every detail of  its multiple facets. Managing the various trust funds, keeping accounts,  figuring taxes, procuring visas, arranging Krishna's itineraries and talks  in half a dozen or more countries, were all tasks that Raja refused  to entrust to anyone else. But above all these in importance was  the meticulous editing of Krishna's manuscripts and verbatim talks.  Therefore, I saw very little of my father. His hours were not adapted to a  child's. He usually got dressed at mid-morning, often skipped lunch, put  in a brief appearance for dinner, and worked until four in the morning.  He seldom came to Ojai at all, preferring to stay in Hollywood with  my grandmother and Erma. Erma admired him tremendously and used  to wonder why my mother seemed to enjoy the company of so many  other people when she was married to a fascinating man like my father.  Of course she never had an inkling about Krinsh. To have known that  might have broken her heart, or then again she might have encompassed  such knowledge within her broad philosophical outlook. 
    In early 1935 Rosalind discovered she was pregnant. She had been  sternly warned that another childbirth would threaten her life. To  Krishna's obvious relief, she decided not to have his child ¡Ð for reasons  of health rather than discretion. She went to an osteopathic friend in a  town east of Los Angeles. Only Krishna knew about this. He was very  compassionate and comforting, getting her on and off the bus, but not  offering to accompany her. Only he could understand the need for care  she would have for the next few days. She was quite ill but her family  attributed this to a mild attack of appendicitis, to which she was subject  and from which she recovered without medical help. If Krishna felt  any compunction for his responsibility in her ordeal, he did not show  it beyond being kind and loving; not even by taking more care in the  precautions he assured Rosalind he was using. (Realistically, it is hard to  imagine how the erstwhile world teacher could have come by these pre- cautions or how she could have been so naive as to believe he had.) 
    132  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    Sophia was not as blind as everyone else appeared to be. They had all  been together in Hollywood for an unusually long time, under Sophia's  quiet observation. 
    ?(r)You should be wary of Krishna,?¡À she told Rosalind, ?(r)he could ruin  your marriage. Why don't you ask Raja to take you and Radha away 
    ¡Ð even to South America?'  Sophia was not a meddler in the slightest degree, even when it came  to her daughters, but she loved Raja very much as a friend and as a  son-in-law. Her insight, for she had been told nothing and was never to  be told of the actual relationship between Krishna and Rosalind, might  have startled Rosalind, but after her recent ordeal she was in no mood  to go off with Raja to a foreign land or to leave Krishna, to whom she  was after all closest at that time. 
    Raja had his second sinus operation in late January 1935, and as  he still needed time to recuperate, he remained in California while  Rosalind, Krishna and I went to New York to the Logans, where talks  were scheduled at Sarobia. Photos taken at this gathering document on  film the love that Krinsh's face could reveal when he looked at my  mother. One wonders again how those hundreds of onlookers failed  to notice ¡Ð or perhaps they did and their comments, if they made any,  never reached our ears, but I think that very unlikely. 
    I did not like getting into trouble and very seldom did, but that year  at Sarobia I once again fell foul of Mr Robbie. There were at least twenty  cats who had the run of the whole house. I knew better than to affront  Mr Robbie's favourite Pack Wack, huge and irritable and always sitting  on his desk, glaring at interrupting little girls. But one day I found a tiny  kitten all alone in the garden and carefully picked it up to return it to its  mother. I had seen the mother pick it up by the scruff of its neck and it  hadn't looked too happy about that. I thought the tail would be better.  Suddenly Mr Robbie bore down on me and, taking me firmly but not  unkindly by the hand, delivered me to my mother. By then he was  furious and scolded my mother even more than me, again not believing  her when she tried to explain that [ meant no harm. [ remember feeling  comforted that she would defend me, for she was generally the strictest  person in my life, though I never remember any harshness. It is certain  that no one would have thought of laying even the mildest hand on me.  Indians were culturally opposed to disciplining small children and the  high-minded Westerners among my adults refrained, not only because  I was ostensibly being raised by Krinsh, but because I believe my Indian  features evoked an image of the suffering Indian masses. Anger retreated  before their compassion. Of course my mother suffered from no such 
    133  
 
                   
 
      cultural delusions and would put me in my room to think about my 
    misdeeds, a punishment [ found quite mortifying. 
    For the most part, some of my happiest memories centre around  Sarobia. The Logans loved Alice in Wonderland and had made a chess- board garden with a Humpty Dumpty sitting on the wall above it,  Sarobia also abounded in strange and wonderful living characters. There  was the artist Blossom Farley, an old man whom some took to be a bit  off, but he knew how to gather edible mushrooms and lived in a little  cottage behind the mansion. Sometimes he saw brownies and fairies  sitting on his mushrooms. I never saw these, but I did learn from him  to find the tiny turtles emerging from their eggs and to listen at night  for the screech owl that sounded like a witch laughing. The big house  had dozens of clocks, most with chimes, all set to ring harmoniously in  succession. Mr Robbie spent the better part of each Sunday winding and  setting them. In this task I seemed to be his welcome companion. 
    Krinsh was at his happiest when surrounded by small groups of  intelligent and serious listeners. Everyone at the Sarobia gatherings  was there by invitation, unlike the camps at Ojai and Ommen. The  atmosphere around Krinsh was charged with many elements, but in  those days it was particularly charged with a sense of love ¡Ð usually  unsentimental and undemanding with a few unwelcome and quickly  discouraged exceptions. It was my mother's unfortunate duty to deflect  from Krinsh those probably unbalanced and positively pestiferous devo- tees who inevitably turned up wherever he was. 
    In late March, Raja and Byron Casselberry, a friend and helper, having  joined Krishna on the east coast, sailed for Rio de Janeiro and Rosalind  returned to California with me. It was on this South American trip  that Krishna wrote Rosalind a series of his most tender love letters.  The habit of writing to her every day, as had once been his habit with  Lady Emily, would continue through all their separations. 
    Strangely enough Krishna was also able to focus his attention and 
    his affection on Raja. His relationship with Rosalind did not seem 
    to affect his behaviour toward Raja. He accepted Raja's love and 
    commitment toward him without question. Just as Lady Emily had 
    noticed a ?(r)divided personality' and Mrs Besant, with quite different 
    implication, had granted him a dual consciousness, one day both Raja 
    and Rosalind would wonder if Krishna were in some way more than one 
    person. But their questioning was still far off. At this time, Raja merely 
    struggled to keep his equilibrium in the face of Krishna's changeable 
    personality, which led to serious misunderstandings between them and 
    with others. Quarrels due to what Raja remembers as Krishna's frequent 
    134  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    lying and undercutting of him, Krishna's agreeing to proposals behind  Raja's back, and making promises that could not be kept, became so  severe after several months in South America that once Krishna, who  could only take so much criticism, slapped Raja. This was not the only  time that would happen, but it was the first. Before the tour, already  cut short, was over, without explanation to anyone, Raja left Krishna  in the care of Byron Casselberry, who was translating the talks into  Spanish. Even Rosalind was not informed of Raja's sudden change  in plans. On 5 August 1935 she wrote to Blanche Matthias repeating  Krishna's explanation: 
    Dearest Blanche, 
    . Krishnaji, himself made up his mind to cancel the Central 
    American countries as he felt there was very little use in going to 
    each one of them for only a week. That is the only reason they are 
    returning earlier. In Rio he stayed for two months and the first few 
    weeks were spent in discussing all the old 1deas of Theosophy, before 
    he was able to say what he had to say. 
    One might surmise from this letter that whatever problems lay  between Krishna and Raja were exacerbated by Krishna's dissension  with the local Theosophists. Nitya's estrangement from his brother ten  years before was now reflected in Raja's disapproval of Krishna's critical  attitude toward those who still made up a large part of his audience.  Krishna had convinced himself that it was the Theosophists who had  turned away from him and cast him out of Adyar. The Theosophists  saw him as having left them in a strange limbo. They had been told  that no matter what he did they should follow him because he was  the world teacher, and they wondered where to turn when he rejected  that role. While Raja sympathized with Krishna's criticism of many  Theosophlcal beliefs, he felt that those who were left in this state of  confusion deserved more patience and understanding than Krishna was  willing to give them. 
    When I was still quite small, we spent a good deal of time in Hollywood.  My mother had a full life there, playing tennis and going to parties,  often leaving me with my grandmother. She was very good to my  grandmother, driving her several times a week to visit her elderly  lady friends, and the three of us went shopping together on Fridays  at Bullock's Wilshire and had lunch in its tea-room. There were also  weekly lunches with the Ingelmans, with whom Krinsh always stayed 
    135      when in Hollywood. Hilda had a great fat black cat and a large  garden behind the house with beehives, which provided all of us  with generous amounts of honey. She was always telling me that  she was the first person to have ever seen me, even before my mother  had. The Ingelmans, with no children of their own, made me feel  was a good substitute. I adored them both, with their lovely melodic  Swedish accent and incredible kindness. I do not believe that in their  eyes bad people existed. Everyone who came their way seemed to be  loved and dear to them. They addressed both me and my mother as  ?(r)little darling'. 
    My aunt Erma was included in this circle and so was Louis Zalk, for  whom she now worked. He had lost a child some years before and had  never recovered from the grief of this loss until he met Krinsh, who,  he felt, gave him back his ability to enjoy life. Everyone could see that  he and Erma were very devoted to each other. 
    Rosalind's friendship with the Van der Leeuws had led to a deep  interest in architecture with considerable exposure to the Bauhaus  movement. She had seen the Van der Leeuws' exceptional modern  factory in Rotterdam. Kees Van der Leeuw had introduced Rosalind  to the young Austrian architect, Richard Neutra, who had moved to  America in the 1920s. 
    Rosalind was fascinated to see Los Angeles through their eyes, espe- cially the site for the new University of California campus in Westwood,  of which Kees and Neutra were both very critical. With their Bauhaus  taste, they disliked the old-fashioned neo-gothic brick. Rosalind asked  Neutra to design a small flat above her mother's house on Gower Street,  so that she and Raja would have their own quarters when they were in  Hollywood. Neutra and she became good friends, although they had  vociferous arguments about colour, the one aspect of his taste with  which she was in disagreement. Neutra was to comment later that  she was the one client with whom he could not always have his way.  But the apartment was a great success. Raja now had privacy when  in Hollywood, where he mostly was, and they could give parties on  the large terrace without imposing on Sophia and Erma down below.  They were, after all, both still in their early thirties. 
    During the past few years Rosalind had also become friends of the  German movie director William Dieterle and his wife. One day we  were invited to their house to meet Keiro, the famous palmist who  had forecast many eminent futures with remarkable accuracy. He had  predicted a decade earlier that the Prince of Wales would never be King  of England. The Dieterles had taken palm prints of Krishna, Raja and 
    136  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    Rosalind and shown them, scattered among others of their friends, to  Keiro, who immediately picked those three from the pile and said,  ?(r)Who are these people, for I have never before seen three hands so  strongly linked?' There were no names on the front side of the prints  and when he discovered who they belonged to he wanted to meet them  all, but Krishna and Raja were still in South America. 
    Keiro told Rosalind that she had a sign on her palm that indicated  a possible injury or death from a jealous woman. He said Mrs Besant  had the same sign and that in ancient Egypt girls with such signs were  put, for their own safety, in temples. ?(r)I would not be surprised to pick  up a paper one day and see that you had been murdered, the same might  have happened to Mrs Besant.' 
    Mrs Besant's life had ended peacefully at Adyar two years before and  Rosalind was not unduly alarmed by this gloomy prophecy. But Keiro  also told her she would soon be asked to take a long flight and that she  should refuse to go for the plane would crash. When we returned to  Gower Street there was a cable waiting for her from Raja asking her  to meet them in Mexico. Fortunately for her, his quarrel with Krishna  must have occurred right after he sent it. Another cable soon arrived  cancelling the plan. Perhaps because Rosalind wasn't on it, there was  no report ofa plane crash. 
    Dev Meyers, the same friend who had rescued me from the Peeping  Tom, was so impressed that he went to Keiro for a reading too but  suffered a grave disappointment, for Keiro said practically nothing.  When Rosalind privately questioned the palmist and explained how  disappointed her friend had been, Keiro said he had indeed seen a great  deal, that Major Myers would die in a few years in a plane accident.  He never told people such news when it was inevitable. Several years  later, Dev crashed flying alone in an Air Force plane. 
    In 1935, again through Kees, Rosalind met the newly arrived German  actress Luise Reiner, who asked Rosalind if she would help her with  English as she particularly liked her accent. This would mean spending  a lot of time with Luise; it seemed for a while that we were all one  family for we were together almost every day. Luise took me around  with her to the studio. As my dark hair matched her colouring much  more than Rosalind's, the rumour spread ¡Ð and Luise did nothing to  deny it ¡Ð that I was her illegitimate daughter. I knew nothing about  the rumour and would scarcely have understood it, but I found the  stares | received from Luise's movie crowd more disturbing than the  stares around Krinsh, though my natural shyness found more refuge  in his reticence than in Luise's evident enjoyment of publicity. 
    137  
 
                   
 
    Luise too wanted to be read by Keiro and was dismayed on being told  that she would go straight to the top and win more honours than anyone  in Hollywood ever had and then fall like a rocket to the bottom. (Luise  won three Oscars in a row and then disappeared from the Hollywood  scene as well as ours.) 
    Also that year Max Reinhardt came to America to make a film of  A Midsummer Night's Dream. William Dieterle was the co-director.  The cast was a most improbable mixture: Mickey Rooney, Olivia de  Havilland, Dick Powell and James Cagney. To these Dieterle wanted  to add me as the little Indian Prince. My father was in South America,  so he had nothing to say about it. But my grandmother, who seldom  expressed disapproval except where my welfare was concerned, was  very much opposed. Fortunately for my mother the problem was  gracefully resolved when I came down with tonsillitis that appeared  at first to be mumps. But Mr Dieterle allowed us on the set to watch  the filming. 
    Hollywood was a world apart from Krishna for both Raja and  Rosalind. With her looks and elegant style in clothes (most of which  she made herself), her Indian husband, and Indian-looking child, and  close association with an Indian sage, she presented a certain exotic  appeal which was not lost on the Hollywood of that era. The Dieterles  were more than acquaintances and she enjoyed many years of close  friendship with them. Every Christmas they sent their chauffeur to  Ojai with a carload of Christmas presents for me, all of which Rosalind  passed on to less fortunate children without my being aware of this  excessive bounty. 
    Through the Dieterles Rosalind met other Hollywood personalities,  including the film music composer William Blanke and director John  Sturges, most of whom had swimming pools, much more rare in  those days, and into which I invariably fell and had to be fished 
    out. 
    Rosalind's former tennis days stood her in good stead too for she 
    found new friendships through this sport with, among others, the 
    composer Arnold Schoenberg and the screenwriter Dorothy Arznar. 
    Dorothy introduced her to Galka Scheyer, a woman who was to have 
    a considerable influence on Rosalind, for she encouraged her to take up 
    painting. 
    Galka had come to America in 1924 to introduce both the paintings 
    and the ideas of the ?(r)Blue Four?¡À artists, Feininger, Jawlensky, Kandinsky 
    and Paul Klee, already well known in Europe. She played a considerable 
    role in awakening American taste to modern art. I had my first painting 
    138  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    experience with her and thoroughly enjoyed her method of putting water  colours on already wet paper, allowing the paint its own freedom of  design. Although she preferred to teach children, she was convinced that  Rosalind must paint and was then sufficiently impressed by her work  to keep many of Rosalind's paintings in her collection. She loved her  sense of colour and if Neutra had done anything to shake my mother's  confidence, which I doubt, Galka would certainly have restored it.  remember Galka as short, wide and large-headed with red hair and the  loudest voice I had ever heard. Her forceful and loving personality can 
    be seen in the following excerpts (not chronologically placed) of her  letters to Rosalind during the ten years of their friendship until Galka's  death in 1945. 
    Dearest Rosaline, 
    Since I am anxious for you to continue to paint with me I have  arranged to have the grown up painting class on Fridays. I expect  you to come if it is possible for you . . . 
    I hope you will start soon. You are an artist and they are born to  create and not only have duties to care for others . . . 
    Dearest Rosaline,  I find in my book by Huxley Means and Ends (Ends and Means)  notes of following pages in the back of it.  Page 4, 44, 48, 158, 113, 313, 214, 278, 296, 309, 318, 361,  362.  I marked them in disagreement. So if you like read them and see  what you think about them. 
    It was lovely at your house. We enjoyed it very much. You are  a darling and you are very much loved by us and by me because I  need to know that you exist . . . 
    Dearest Rosaline, 
    Today I''m writing to tell you the tiny Puff, the smallest and favorite  of the two dogs, is staying with me with the purpose to go to Radha  when she comes back. I want her to have that dog. It is half the  size of all the others, vivid and lively and I think it is waiting to  go back to Radha and therefore pretends not to grow up and stay  a small baby. I really have not the heart to give that dog away. As |  said I want Radha to have it, except you would be really opposed to  it. If you think because you move around so much, it would bring  difficulties, I do not believe so. You can always return the dog to 
    139      me and Radha can have the dog with the understanding as she had  before that it will be for the time she will stay in Ojai. Let me know  if you agree to this. 
    Our travelling during those years was indeed extensive and probably  for this reason, as Galka feared, I did not get the little Puff.  Beatrice Wood often attended Galka's classes too. I called her Beato 
    ¡Ð a nickname that became her signature on her pottery. She and  my mother would remain close for the rest of their lives and she  eventually moved to Ojai right across the street from Arya Vihara.  Beato was profoundly interested and influenced by what Krinsh had  to say, but was not drawn to him as a person as she was to both  of my parents. She dressed in an exotic and colourful manner, with  loads of heavy silvery jewellery, full skirts and large hats, all of which  was in strange contrast to her very distinguished ?(r)main line' accent.  Beato, later to be called the ?(r)Mama of Dada', knew everyone of  interest in the art and theatre world. Even when she ultimately achieved  fame as a foremost ceramicist, Beato remained a charming and utterly  unassuming person, full of wit as well as a vivid and true sense of what  was real.  Raja too had his circle of friends in Hollywood, many the same as  those of Rosalind, but some more special to him. He was a first-rate  chess player and this gave occasion for many evenings out. The amount  of social activity meant neither of them really suffered from loneliness in  their often separate lives. Though basically shy, Raja had a charmingly  naughty streak that delighted his friends, especially Beato, who felt  she had learned from him the importance of truth and of striving  for perfection. But Raja's jokes often seemed to shock Rosalind. This  naturally dampened Raja's fun and too often their evenings out together  ended in disharmony. 
    Rosalind adjusted easily from her life in Hollywood to the equal  amount of time she spent in Ojai when Krishna was in America. As  the office work was at that time all centred in Hollywood, it was  difficult for Raja to get away. This left Rosalind to run Arya Vihara  and see to Krishna's welfare while he was in Ojai. 
    Krinsh had returned exhausted from South America. Rosalind had not  been told of his quarrel with Raja so she had no reason to feel caught  in the two men's conflict. She only knew that the steady flow of letters  from Krishna had reaffirmed his love for her. In late winter of 1936,  the three of us without my father went to Carmel for a month's rest, 
    140  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    staying as usual at Peter Pan Lodge. Winter in Carmel is even more  beautiful than summer, for the weather is clear and enormous waves  rise and crash over the rocks at Point Lobos. The sea-lions bark and  the sea is deep sapphire. 
    It was not long before Rosalind was again pregnant. This time the  decision as to what to do about it was taken out of her hands. One  day in Hollywood Krishna and Raja had one of their more terrible  arguments in front of Rosalind and Sophia. Rosalind was not involved  and can no longer remember what it was about, but she was highly  distressed that the two men would shout at each other in front of her  mother. They must have forgotten her presence for it was very rare  for either of them, but especially Krishna, to expose this side of their  relationship to anyone. Leaving me in Hollywood, as she sometimes  did, Rosalind and Krishna left that evening to drive back to Ojai. She  had been deeply shaken and upset by the quarrel and was convinced  that it was the cause of her losing on the way to Ojai, in an isolated  field, this second baby with Krishna. He was, as usual, tender, kind  and loving and helped her as best he could. 
    It took some time, however, for Rosalind to recover fully from this  ordeal and Krishna remained solicitous throughout the spring. He  insisted that she should not over-do it, that she get enough rest,  and he spent time reading to her to keep her quiet, and he played  with me. Of course I did not understand what was wrong with my  mother, but I remember sharing Krinsh's concern. 
    This much loving care was rarely to be enjoyed by Rosalind. She had  strong physical endurance and a high threshold of pain. She never cared  for her own comfort, yet had to adapt to living with and caring for  two men of extreme physical sensitivity. She always had a remarkable  ability to discard and forget what troubled her, to see the world as  she wished it to be. However, when faced with recalling an actual  memory she could bring it back fully but seemed to set herself apart  as though it were another person who had lived through it. It may  be that she simply had a remarkable capacity for acceptance of certain  things like pain and death as natural and inevitable circumstances. She  still had Krishna's love and their relationship would continue unde- tected. For the most part the three of them contained their contentious  moments in a private realm. In these earlier years they all felt a very  real bond of affection. It was this bond that made them subject to  idealization by both friends and strangers. Rosalind wrote a letter to  Blanche which reflects a period of harmony at yet another gathering  at Sarobia. 
    141  
 
                   
 
    June 28 ??36 
    Dear Blanche, . 
    You really should have been here it has all been so lovely, and 
    everyone seemed to enjoy it so much in such a deep sense. Also 
    the discussions which were held every other day, were the best 1 
    have ever heard. Krishnaji gave two splendid talks in New York and 
    three here. They were corrected and sent off the next day. Rajagopal 
    said they were well done too. Altogether there were five talks and 
    so many have said they have never heard him speak so well before. 
    I think so too. In a few days we sail. 
    At five years old I was sailing to Europe for the second time. The  Ommen Camp was an exciting place for me. Krinsh sometimes let  me sit next to him in the big tent where the discussions were held;  while it was hard to sit there the whole time, I believe I managed to  do so. There were other children about, but mostly I was, as usual,  in an adult world. 
    Sometimes those two summers at Ommen mingle in my mind and [  am not certain to which one specific memories belong. There are visions  of the Indian sisters of the Sarabhai family taking long hot showers in  the communal shower room at the end of the hall and my fascination  at their graceful winding in and out of their saris. 
    I remember the great white house called Henan in which we stayed,  surrounded by people who lavished on me the love and gratitude they  felt toward Krinsh but were unable to express directly to him because  of his precept against devotees. My mother waged a constant battle to  prevent me from becoming spoiled. 
    There was a little seat attached to the back of Krinsh's bicycle for  me. Krinsh biked me around the beautiful pine-forested grounds, past  the barn with little piglets and the fat pink sow ¡Ð probably my first  sight of that species, Eerde castle with its moat and swans, the camp  fire circle in the sand dunes. I had been sternly warned never to take  my feet off the foot rests. One day curiosity got the better of me and  I lifted my right foot off the rest. It was instantly caught up in the  spokes throwing us both off the bicycle. My heel was cut to the bone.  Krinsh was adept in a physical crisis. I can remember feeling no fear  and much comfort as he carried me back to my mother. I was laid  up for some time after that, but was showered with attention from  the scores of followers in the camp who were much concerned with  the well-being of a creature so close to Krinsh. Attention was not my  sole prerogative for long. Sara Logan was suddenly stricken by a severe 
    142  
 
                   
Beyond the Garden 
    attack of appendicitis and needed care. She was to die a few years later  from complications resulting from the ensuing surgery. 
    After the camp, my mother had flown to London with Krinsh for a  short rest, leaving me again at Ommen with plenty of ladies to help  my father look after me. I can remember one morning awakening in  my crib, which was covered with a white net, and secing a large red  rose lying over my head. I do not remember feeling sad, just looking  at the rose and knowing it was there instead of my mother. 
    It had been an exhausting session for my mother, trying to keep a  laid-up child happy and to look after the seriously ill Sara. She was  confined to the house and had even missed the lectures which had been  attended by nearly a thousand people. She was also depressed by the  cloud of impending war. Like Mr Robbie, she had pacifism in her genes  and was proud of her grandfather, Carl Waldo, who had risked being  stoned on the street corners of Buffalo to speak against the Civil War.  Along with others of her generation, she had believed the First World  War would end all wars and her father's friendship with Woodrow  Wilson and his serving on Wilson's Peace Commission had heightened  her optimism. It was now evident that peace was fast sinking beneath  one horizon as war rose over another. 
    Those times were rare when I was left with my father. I remember  them as very special. From him I learned a different sort of knowledge  than from Krinsh. My father taught me to tell the time, to use numbers,  and to take an interest in good handwriting. He read me stories from  the Indian Jataka tales and from the Bible. His gifts to me were usually  books. We never played hide and seek, but we played indoor games  like Chinese chequers. He did not care what I ate or when I went to  bed and put very few demands on my behaviour as long as I did not  disturb anyone. It was he who somehow instilled in me the importance  of being truthful and the undesirability of hypocrisy. 
    After one of his operations he had lost fecling in his right hand, which  made it difficult for him to do many things ¡Ðbraid my hair or tie shoelaces.  By sheer will power he did not let it affect his beautiful handwriting. 
    When my mother and Krinsh returned from England we all  had a holiday in Villars in Switzerland. We stayed in a charm- ing old hotel, at which a solicitous devotee, who had obtained a  miraculous cure at the Bircher-Benner Clinic in Zurich, had already  established herself. She showed the cook how to make Bircher  muesli, a then unknown nutritional marvel and persuaded Krinsh  that we must all eat it every morning. To this day hotels all over  Switzerland and even the Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong serve muesli. 
    143  
 
                   
 
   
    After this unusual breakfast, Krinsh and [ took walks every morning,  watching the cows with varying sizes of Swiss cow-bells going to  pasture. Krinsh would rub his head with pine needles because he  thought it good for his hair. (Later he would discover he was allergic  to pine needles.) 
    Our association with Krinsh led to encounters with an incredible variety  of people. Some accepted us merely as part of his entourage. Many  became close friends of us all or one or the other of my parents or  myself for reasons that extended beyond Krinsh's sphere. 
    Among them was Molly Berkeley, an American from the Lowell  family, who divorced an American husband with whom she was bored  and later married the Eighth and last Earl of Berkeley, whom she had  met at a country weekend in England. Her hostess warned her that  there would be a guest who did not like Americans. This guest, Lord  Berkeley, arrived, saw Molly across the room and came straight over  to meet her. He said, ?(r)I have a question to ask you.?¡À He was suddenly  interrupted and didn't have another chance to talk to her that evening.  A few weeks later they met again at a hunt and he was impressed by  Molly's superb horsemanship. He asked her to dine with him and at  the end of the evening he reminded her of the question he had been  about to ask when they first met. 
    ?(r)I'd like to ask it now,?¡À he said. ?¡ãWill you marry me?'  ?(r)I will,?¡À she replied, ?(r)but you will have to live in my little cottage in  Santa Barbara, California, because I cannot live anywhere else.' 
    As a peer whose ancestry went back to the Norman Conquest, Lord  Berkeley was known to have thought it beneath him to entertain the  King and Queen of England, whom he called ?(r)those Huns'. He said  that, of course, he could not live in Santa Barbara. So they parted.  When Molly arrived back in America, she was met at the ship with  great bouquets of roses and a cable declaring. ?(r)I cannot live without  you. [ will live in Santa Barbara.' 
    They spent a few summers in what she called her cottage but which  was in fact a sizeable villa on a hilltop above Montecito. Lord Berkeley  had it painted a dreadful shade of Kelly green, his hunting colour. As  he wished to give large dinner parties starting at nine in the evening  and in the style to which he was accustomed, and as it was not possible  to find staff in Santa Barbara who would fulfil these exacting demands  and hours, Molly found it increasingly difficult to live there. In 1939 the  war in Europe prevented them from returning to America and Molly  offered the house to us; we lived there for six months. 
    144  
 
                         Beyond the Garden 
    I never met Lord Berkeley, but my mother stayed at Berkeley Castle  before I was born and played chess with him every evening. When I  visited the castle as a tourist many years later I hoped that my mother,  always a vegetarian, had not been told of the ancient custom of throwing  cows' carcasses down a pit in the prisoners' wing to asphyxiate the  inmates by the stench; or of the horrible death of Edward II, who failed  to be asphyxiated in time. People with Theosophical backgrounds who  pride themselves on being sensitive to vibrations would not rest easy  in Berkeley Castle. 
    We remained friends with Molly until her death in Assisi over a decade  ago. On a last visit there she told me how, with one short sentence,  Krinsh had helped her. She had complained to him of dissatisfaction  with her life: the great castle in England to run, the villa in Rome, it  was all too much with the servants and entertaining. ?(r)Either leave or  put up with it,?¡À he told her, and that was all it took to enable her to  settle down peacefully with her husband until his death. Alone during  the war, she was bombed in London and was left for two days buried  in a cellar. She became a Roman Catholic after that and retired to Assisi,  her final home. An American priest was there the day I visited her shortly  before her death. Suddenly she turned to me and said, ?(r)Krishnamurti has  more wisdom in his little finger than the whole Catholic church put  together.' I shall never forget the priest's expression. 
    In 1936, after Villars, Sara Logan joined us and we all stayed with  Molly in her villa in Rome. I remember a great dining table with a  footman behind each chair and things being handed to me before I  knew I wanted them. 
    My parents were quite convinced that summer of the great danger  to civilization. My mother did not know it would be our last summer  in Europe for many years, but she must have sensed it for I can  still remember her taking me to the Sistine chapel and impressing  Michelangelo's paintings on me as ifI might never see them again.  I returned twenty years later, but I still remember that first viewing  most vividly, especially the hand of God reaching toward Adam. 
    As children have their own sense of the important, I remember  equally well my first giraffe, which I saw in Rome Zoo, commenting,  to the amusement of my adults, that its eyes were like Rukmini's but  its legs were like Krinsh's. 
    We were taken to tea one afternoon at the castle of Count Orsini,  the last of his line. I promptly disappeared down a spiral staircase into  the dungeons, causing consternation to my parents, but evidently not 
    145      annoying the old Count for he gave me a carved wooden dog-clock  which still ticks intermittently. 
    Sara Logan sailed back to America with my mother and me. We  passed the rock of Gibraltar, another landmark that was thoroughly  impressed upon me. The voyage was so rough that Sara and I were  the only passengers on deck. One day a careless deck-hand left open  the guard rail at the rear of the ship. He had failed to notice one little  girl and a lone lady who had survived the rough seas to wander up on  deck together. I eluded Sara's attention for a nearly fatal instant and  hung fascinated over the open drop to the churning waters above the  propeller. The Conte di Savoia was a very large ship and I must have  been several storeys above the water. I never forgot Sara's calm but  firm grip on my arm as she pulled me away from the precipice and  led me, without a trace of anger, to safety. She was too fair to blame  me but I can now imagine the fright I gave her. It was on this voyage,  left solely in her company, that I developed a still deeper attachment  to this person who had taken both me and my mother into her heart  as her own family. She would be my first loss and one I would never  forget. 
    146  
 
                   
Annie Besant, aged forty-tivo 
    Charles Webster Leadbeater Jiddu Krishnamurti, 1910  
 
                   
Krishna with his brother  ¡ê¡è o  Nityanandam  Leadbeater at  and Charles  Adyarin 1910 
    Mys Besant with Charles  Leadbeater (STANDING),  Krishna (SEATED RIGHT) and 
    C. Jinarajadasa  
 
                         Croquetat Wimbledon, 1911:  Nityanandam (LEFT), George  Arundale, Krishna, and Mrs  Besant (CENTRE) 
    Jinarajadasa with  D. Rajagopal, 1913  
 
                   
Raja aged eighteen 
    Raja at Adyar, 1919  
 
                   
Rulkmini, 1919 
    Rosalind aged nwenty-one in  Hollywood, 1924  
 
                   
% 
    " o : Nityanandam and Krishia,  placc unknown, 1925 
    Raja and Krishna at Arya  Vilara, 1925  
 
                   
L Mrs Besant and Krishua ar  Oununen, ?¨¦. 1930 
    Krishua in London c. 1929  
 
                   
 
  Raja, Radha and Krishnain  Los Angeles, 1932  
 
                   
Radha, Raja and Rosalind in  Hollywood, 1934 
    Krishna, Rosalind and Radha  at Point Lobos, 1934  
 
                         e 
    & 
    a - 
   / 
    ?(r) 
    Krishna, Rosalind and Robert Logan at Sarobia, 1935  
 
                   
o  Radha and cousin David, Rosalind and Radha in  c. 1936 Hollywood, 1936 
    Radha and Jinarajadasa at  Ojai, 1934  
 
                         Sarobia, 1937: (ABOVE LEFT) Sara Logan, Rosalind and Radha; (ABOVE  RIGUT) Raja, Radha and Rosalind; (BELOW) Krishna addressing a gathering  
 
                   
s 
   * -. 
   . 
    Arya Vihara, 1939: Radha and RosalindJerry-bo 
   with  
 
                         At Lady Berkeley's villa in  Santa Barbara, 1939: (ABOVE  LEFT) Radha and Krishna;  (ABOVERIGUT) with Maria  Huxley; (BELOW) Rajaand  Radha  
 
                         Life with the animals at Ojai, 1938¡Ð40  
 
                   
The war years at Arya Vihara  photographed by Beatrice 
    Wood: (ABOVE LEFT) Krishna;  (ABOVE RIGHT) Rosalind with 
    Tina; (sBELOW) Willie 
    Weidesnann and Krishna  
 
                         /, "9.%?(r)?¡ã?(r) 
    .  & . 
    Krishna in 1946 after his long Krishna and Aldous Huxley at  illness Wrightwood, 1947 
    (FROM LEFT TO RIGHT) Aldous Huxley with Radha's dog, Desdemona,  Krishna, Igor and Vera Stravinsky, Maria Huxley, and Radha, 1949  
 
                   
 
  Lili Kraus  
 
                         Krishna at Point Lobos in 1953  with Coco, baby Tinkaand  Radha  
 
                         Krishna, from an Indian first-day cove  
 
                         16 
    Sages and Shadows 
    Although Krinsh was certainly the magnet that attracted people to our  lives, there were a few, like Sara and Robert, who turned their main  focus on Rosalind. Robert was like a father to her and did much to  replace her own father whom she had left when she was sixteen. Much  as Sara loved and admired Raja and Krishna, my mother remembers  her saying that women should not live in dependency on men and  that she was going to see to it that some day Rosalind would have  financial independence. At the time Rosalind paid no attention to these  comments. Years later she would understand the seriousness of Sara's  intentions. Before she died, Sara asked Robert to honour in his will her  wish that Rosalind would inherit a sizeable portion of their estate. They  both had faith that she would do something worthwhile with her life,  independent of Krishna or Raja. 
    Sara built an apartment for Rosalind on the second floor of Arya  Vihara. She thought Raja's rheumatism would improve if he slept on  an upper level, but her main purpose was to provide them with more  privacy than the downstairs of Arya Vihara afforded. Sara did not realize  that Raja and Rosalind were living separate marital lives and she certainly  did not realize that the apartment with its front and rear outside staircases  would grant Krishna even greater opportunity to visit Rosalind in Raja's  absences from Ojai. Nor did I ever mention to anyone those frequent  early mornings when from my bedroom window I saw Krinsh, in the  white raw silk nightshirts that my mother made for him, creeping up  the stairs with a flower in his hand. Those were their times together,  early mornings and sometimes late evenings, after | was supposed to  be safely tucked away in bed. 
    In the summer of 1937 my mother and [ went east, first to the Logan's  summer place in Winter Harbor and then to Sarobia to meet my father  and Krinsh, who were arriving from Europe. 
    The Winter Harbor house was a large, typical New England summer  house. There was a sloping green lawn to the bluff above the rocky  beach. We had blueberries every morning for breakfast, freshly picked 
    147      from the surrounding woods. My mother and Sara spent hours putting  together puzzles or playing chess while I roamed about the gardens,  often following Mr Robbie doing those chores he so assiduously set  for himself. 
    The Logans believed in self-sufficiency and they ran a household with  minimal servants. Guests washed their own dishes and helped with the  cooking; even if they were European princesses, of whom there was  one in the house that summer. I cannot remember why she was there  for no one seemed to know her very well, but the Logans were already  beginning their era of hospitality to the displaced fugitives of fascism.  This particular Princess was pretty but in my six year old's opinion,  spoiled. She had no idea how to wait on herself. She and my mother  played tennis together while I sat on the sidelines and struck up a  friendship with an elderly gentleman who later insisted my mother  bring me to tea in his Park Avenue apartment. 
    Sara and Robert were abruptly called away to California by a crisis  in their daughter Deborah's life. The Princess took advantage of our  hosts' absence to insist that my mother and I move out of the room  Sara had assigned us. She claimed it was more suitable for her. My  mother complied without hesitation for her nature was such that she  never felt comfortable with anything that anyone else coveted, but Sara  was indignant when she later found out. 
    The Logans' tragedy centred around Deborah, their only child. Eight- een years before, when she was not quite twenty years old, Deborah had  fallen under the influence of a doctor of sorts, a hypnotist who had in- duced Deborah to marry him and adopt his daughter, presumably in the  hope of acquiring the Logan fortune. This man had had two previous  wives, and Deborah claimed the last wife had died an unnatural death.  She told Sara that she had even been forced to help dispose of the  dismembered body, but the whole story was so improbable and grisly,  so alien to everything in their lives, lives which tolerated no form of  killing ¡Ð even a fly ¡Ð that Sara could not decide whether Deborah was  hallucinating or had been hypnotized by her husband in order to bring  her under his control. If the story were true she knew that to open  an inquiry would create a horrible scandal and do worse damage to  Deborah. She was afraid to tell Robert, fearing that his pacifism might  be overridden by his anger against a man who had so used his daughter.  The worst of all for Sara to bear was that it was her own interest in this  doctor's unorthodox medicine that had led to his meeting Deborah and  inducing her away from her parents to California. It is an indication of  her love and confidence in Rosalind that she told her alone the details of 
    148  
 
                   
Sages and Shadows 
    this story. Rosalind bore the burden of that terrible secret in silence for  over forty years. Sara and Robert succeeded finally in rescuing Deborah  from the clutches of this man, only to find her so badly damaged that  they despaired of her ever recovering from the mental breakdown which  she suffered that summer. 
    In the midst of her tribulations Sara took the time to write to Rosalind  just after she arrived in California. 
    Fri. P. M., July 30th, 1937 
    Dear Rosie,  I do hope you are having breakfast in bed and resting, a real rest 
    ¡Ð and some tennis . . . I saw Deborah twice! It is very terrible! 1  cannot be sure she knew me. Got Dr White [Deborah's husband]  to sign for her at a private hospital. She is to see no one and they  do not want her to even have me go in to see her but of course I  simply had to . . . They say it is a kind of mental case that never  gets well or kills ¡Ð she is strong physically. IfI could only be with  her I feel it might help at some ofthand moment, but, as Rob says  the Doctor is very fine, is tremendously interested in the case and  White's queer ways and that she for the 1st time 1n all these years  is out of his house and influence. That is some hope that she might  at least be free of his pull . . . The Doctor says this phase lasts from  three weeks to four months and the following stage of reaction and  depression indefinite time in years ¡Ð but I never give up and yet look  for nothing to take refuge in. Without last year at Ommen I assure  you I could not have witnessed this corner of the vortex with such  quiet and calm . . .  Of course, I understood very little of this at the time but put together  bits and pieces of adult conversation later. A great part of my diversion  as a child was listening in on adult conversations. We seemed to be  surrounded by people who had intense and often interesting problems  and I very early found out that ifI remained as ?(r)quiet as a mouse' as [  was often told to and never interrupted, my presence was overlooked.  I often overheard much more than anyone intended I should. 
    At the end of that summer, Krinsh and both my parents and [ prepared  to drive across country in our new Lincoln Zephyr, which they had  bought at factory price for only nine hundred dollars. It was silver- green with two doors, one wide front seat for the three adults and a  small rear seat for me. 
    149  
 
                   
 
    Sara gave us a picnic basket with red and white plastic dishes and 
    cutlery to match, all of such good quality that I still have them. Motels  were just beginning to sprout up around the country, not the luxurious  type of today but sparsely furnished individual bungalows. We always  picnicked on the road for lunch. It being still in the Depression, we  were often joined by a hobo, to whom my mother would offer at least  a hard-boiled egg, cooked on a camping stove in the motel, before 
    setting off each morning. 
    I cannot imagine how we all survived that trip, cooped up for weeks 
    in a one and a half seat car. I do not remember it as a happy time but 
    neither do I remember any particular ?(r)scenes'. It was an unusual thing 
    for all of them to be doing. They never took long journeys for the fun 
    of it and perhaps this came close enough to a pleasure trip for them 
    to do their best to behave toward each other as well as they could. 
    It was the first time I was acutely conscious that when others weren't 
    around all three of them at once were too many. Everything was more 
    pleasant when they came in twos. 
    Krinsh wrote a thorough report to Mr Robbie about the trip shortly 
    after we arrived back in Ojai, giving all the technical details about the 
    car, its fuel consumption, powers of acceleration in the mountains, 
    and the fact that he gave it a daily bath all across the country. He 
    was quite ecstatic about that car. When it was his turn to drive he 
    took off at alarming speed. Once, that is, that the engine had been 
    perfectly broken in according to a timetable he had established. 
    Krinsh prided himself on having been taught to drive by Miss 
    Dodge and Lady De La Warr's chauffeur in their new Rolls-Royce. 
    In those days, the Rolls-Royce Company provided a specially trained 
    chauffeur with the automobile. Krinsh learned a system of driving that 
    was supposed to save the brakes by always rolling to a slow stop, never 
    riding the clutch, varying the engine speed every ten minutes and above 
    all *?(r)watching out for the other fool'. This sounds sensible when combined 
    with moderate speeds which were essential on English country roads, 
    but it also presupposes a limit on speed with which Krinsh did not 
    bother. There are some people who are thankful to be alive in spite 
    of having ridden with him at the wheel. My mother, on the other 
    hand, prided herself on having driven a car from the age of twelve 
    and a motor-boat before that. Her grandfather was the first man in 
    Buffalo to own an automobile. It was she who taught my father to 
    drive, though it was his bad luck on one of his first lessons in Britain 
    to rear-end a Scotsman and knock off his fuel tank. Both Krinsh and my 
    mother frequently expressed slightly scornful criticism of Raja's driving. 
    150  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    Even my father, however, had fewer accidents and near accidents than  did Krinsh. There was also the problem of car sickness from which my  mother and I suffered. Cutting corners and keeping a steady foot on the  accelerator was essential, which Krinsh did well enough but my father  tended toward jerkiness, abrupt stops and swishing corners. All this  did not lead to a completely harmonious three-thousand-mile drive. 
    The sight I found most impressive was the Carlsbad Caverns. Having  been read Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn by Mr Robbie that summer,  caves held for me a graphic interest. Krinsh, on the other hand, was not  the least impressed by the caverns and he wrote to Mr Robbie saying  he greatly preferred Boulder Dam. Perhaps, as he himself suggested,  my adults were just tired the day we saw Carlsbad, for that was  uncharacteristic of Krinsh, who was always extolling the works of  nature over those of man. Perhaps he was impressed by the fact that  an astute guard at the dam sensed among us an important personage.  However unlikely it might be that he knew exactly who Krinsh was,  he gave us an exclusive private tour. For some reason long forgotten  we skipped the Grand Canyon altogether. Of course they had all seen  it before I was born. 
    Mr Robbie took the trouble to write to me en route. From then on  he wrote me weekly letters whenever we were separated. 
    Miss Radha Rajagopal, October 21, 1937 
    Hotel Paso del Norte, 
    El Paso, Texas 
    Dear Srog, [Mr Robbie's nickname for me after my mispronunciation 
    of frog] 
    I wonder how the Zeppelin is flying along and whether you have 
    heard any srogs along the wayside saying ?(r)Brek-ek-ek-ek Co-ax 
    Co-ax'. 
    We have been missing you all very much even Pack Wack [his big 
    fat cat] has been asking where his scroggy friend has disappeared, and 
    the wind says it 1s hardly worth blowing over Sarobia when there are 
    no badminton birds to blow about. 
    [ enclose cards for Krinch and Daddy. 
    Much love from, 
    MR ROBBIE 
    We had been invited to visit Frieda Lawrence in Taos, New Mexico.  Frieda had been at Arya Vihara the year before and wrote to Rosalind  Jjust before we started out from Sarobia. 
    151  
 
                      Kiowa Ranch, San Cristobal, N.M. 12 Oct, 37  Dear Rosalind, 
    We are looking forward to your coming, come as soon as you can  because of the weather. You know we are so high and you might  find snow. Tell me if you would all like to meet people or rather  have a rest ¡Ð It has been so very lovely, the mountains superb, with 
    aspens turning yellow and the red oak and dark pines.  So we will look for you about the 26th. I won't forget you are  vegetarians.  With kindest regards,  FRIEDA L  (and from me Angelino) 
    Anyone who knows Frieda's story will of course recognize Angelino  as her lover at that time and later as her husband; D. H. Lawrence had  died seven years before. 
    I was delighted to be in a private house once more after the weeks  in cramped motel rooms, cating food cooked on a camping stove. We  were given a guest cottage and could make our own breakfasts but ate  the other meals with Frieda. She was plump and red-headed and very  warm toward us all and I felt comfortable among the assorted animals,  including a small pig, who came and went freely through the house. I  soon gravitated toward the barn, where I found Angelino milking the  cow. He was a large man who laughed easily, too easily. I disliked him  at once, an unusual reaction in me. I could not understand his remarks  as he leaned his head on the cow's stomach and yanked at her teats,  nor can I remember them now but I felt uncomfortable and retreated  in silence back to my family. 
    In a letter to a friend in Europe, Maria Huxley beautifully described  Frieda's household and Taos. The Huxleys, whom we had not yet met,  but would shortly after our return to California, had just left there a  month before we arrived. 
    This place, I mean Taos, 20 miles off and where we never go, is a  nest of scandal and quarrels. Frieda has been, and still is so affectionate  and generous and warm-hearted that I do not want anything to come  back to her which could be misinterpreted . . . the quarrels with  her and Mabel Luhan who wanted to steal Lawrence's ashes from a  childish little chapel Frieda built over them here . . . The desert . . .  begins four miles from us . . . pink on the barren soil, grey with the  sage-brush, bright green in the irrigated oasis and the black cracks  which are the turning banks of the Rio Grande . . . 
    152  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    Frieda's life is extraordinary. She lives in such a primitive way that  we can hardly understand it. Angiolino built her a concrete house . . .  and the sitting-room is hung by all Lawrence's pictures. But the heart  of the house is a large kitchen which has only a wooden range which  heats, or rather tepids, a little bath water and which must be lit for  every cup of tea. The easiness might be called messiness, the milk  which comes . . . from a pretty Jersey cow is around in all forms  of creams, and butters, and sour creams, and milks and what not 
    . . there are also the pig-bowl and the cat-bowl and the dog-bowl;  many things to horrify me and shock me; yet she is essentially clean  if you can imagine that; perhaps because she is a blonde. My greatest  horror is to be asked to meals; it 1s then taken for granted that I do the  washing up ¡Ð I arrive with my rubber gloves ¡Ð but the mess is such  that if there were a heaven [ deserve a bit of it for every washing up  [ do. Meanwhile there she sits, talking of Montaigne or Buddha or  Mabel Dodge [Luhan] . . . 
    Frieda is continually visited out of the blue by vague friends or  strangers; they want to see Mrs. D. H. Lawrence, and though she  complains she lets them. Then they bring her cakes and think they  have paid her for her trouble.! 
    (The chapel was still there when in 1972 my husband and I and our  children visited the ranch, now run by the University of New Mexico  as a writers' retreat. Lawrence's ashes are in a simple urn inside. Outside,  under a marble slab inscribed with her coat of arms and full German title  of Baroness von Richthofen, lies Frieda.) 
    The affront to Maria's fastidiousness by Frieda's housekeeping would  have been fully shared by the two Brahmin men in her wake if they had  been exposed to it. But Rosalind was adept at establishing, even at the  expense of tact, the standard of cleanliness they would expect. 
    That autumn, soon after our return to California, we met Aldous  and Maria Huxley, who were renting a small apartment near my  grandmother's Gower street house. 
    Maria, like Sara, immediately saw Rosalind for herself, apart from  her connection with Krishna and Raja, and loved her for herself. She  also fully understood the complications of life with a ?(r)great man'. She  admired Rosalind's skills and practicality and there was soon much  sharing and pooling of their respective abilities. 
    In spite of her closeness to Sara Rosalind didn't confide in her that most  essential part of her life ¡Ð her relationship with Krishna. It is hard, 
    153  
 
                   
 
   
    looking back, to believe that this profound and yet worldly woman  would not have recognized exactly what was going on. Perhaps she  did but was far too sensitive to intrude in an area of Rosalind's life  where she had not been invited. 
    Sara never failed to take time to write to Rosalind and to stay in  close touch with her. Sometimes she wrote every day. She wrote the  following letter on 11 January 1938 a couple of months after our drive  across America. She had evidently witnessed some incidents while they  were still at Sarobia. 
    I have thought much of your problems as they are or as I imagine  them to be, personally I feel we cannot do more than accept people,  as they are; and let them be themselves ¡Ð and no matter how close,  let them find with others what we cannot give them. Every man  needs spoiling by some one, he must think well of himself at any  price. The more he doubts his ability to stand alone, the more he will  protest it. A man, like a woman, does not so much want a fuss made  over them, as much as to feel their wives or husbands do not belittle  them, hurt pride is often at the secret of many otherwise congenial  friendships. Marriage or love as it is known is supposed to give no  cause for such a state, so people look out for this, independence from  it as a sign of weakness in the one and insult to the other ¡Ð marriage  be damned as it is expected to be!! It takes a great indifference in  both male and female, as to what other people think to get the  happy companionship that joint interests affords. It's seldom what  the husband thinks of the wife or the wife of the husband that causes  the trouble, but the wonder of the man if he is made to seem small in  the eyes of the world or the wonder of the woman if she is supposed  not able to hold the affections of her husband! Pride or fear of pity or  of censure wrecks many a pleasant enough hand in hand fight through  life. Why a husband and wife feel privileged to tell each other what  they think of each other I do not know: yet it is not a thing that can  be hidden, it is made quite real by words about it yet nothing is as  hopeless as being put into a pigeon hole, and watched as soon as one  tries to sneak out unobserved. I hope Raja has a car of his own, and  can get someone to ride with him who thinks his driving, as well as  everything else he does, is perfect ¡Ð This will help a lot. No doubt  it's stupid to get married just as stupid to get unmarried . . . 
    Whatever else it may have been that set off this treatise on marriage  from Sara, it is certain that during the few weeks we were all at Sarobia 
    154  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    after buying the Zephyr she would have witnessed the criticism of  his driving that Raja suffered from both Rosalind and Krishna. She  obviously recognized that Rosalind and Raja's marriage had difficulties;  both Sara and Robert had had love affairs in the course of their marriage  without destroying that part of their relationship they both most valued 
    ¡Ð companionship and love based on a deep mutual respect. She would  have understood a love affair in another's marriage if it was based on  honest understanding between the two married partners. She would  not have understood hypocrisy.  Sara's troubles with Deborah continued. She had brought her daugh- ter home to Sarobia after eighteen years of estrangement. Although  Deborah's health improved remarkably under her mother's care, irrepa- rable damage had been done to her. In her frequent letters to Rosalind,  Sara expressed her depressed as well as her happier moments. 
    Dear Rosie . . . 
    . no doubt happier days have been and may be for me and others,  there is no sense of comparison present, it simply seems enough that  the damp heat of yesterday, broken by a thunderstorm in the evening  has dramatically and marvelously made way for the blissful happy  air of today. New-cut grass, June roses, fragrant honeysuckle fill  the air. 
    This AM Rob neat and dapper with the kerchief border protruding  just the proper degree from the breast pocket, took himself to lunch  and golf at the country club and I was conscious ofa greater serenity  and happiness than I felt he had before this last trip west. It has left  him happier, freer, something lifted. Perhaps to me it has also done  something but not of the nature my friends and family evidently  would feel themselves or expect me to feel ¡Ð when they say ?(r)How  happy you must be to have your daughter with you' but I have  no sense of accomplishment . . . The burden and anxiety of her  immediate danger are, in a way over, but my heart perhaps always  holds too much of the useless refrain. It's ?(r)heavy with the world's 
    . woe', as the Buddha said in some special moment of more  depressmn than happy compassion: if compassion can be happy! Out  of the frying pan into the fire! What frying pan and what fire! who  can say ¡Ð but surely some frying pan and some fire. It needs must be  so, until we are enlightened and out of bondage to illusion and love  of power. How much of a . . . revelation this lasting assurance of  the blissful state may be; how much a weary plodding through life  and death, how much a clearing of the atmosphere created by the 
    155  
 
                             two great beasts of mind and body that the inner man may make a  clear free get away, I do not know. Surely the rose seems to have no  battle with illusion to attain its fullness. As we are nature's products  only to this point and here the real self-conscious hassle begins; to  what indeed can we look for help . . . the warmth of the sun is a  factor in the opening of the rose, perhaps Krishnaji could if I did not  create my own shade aid me . . . In short how, ere it is too late for  this body are we to handle our rudders so the ship rides free with the  wind? A mere man may teach me to steer a boat, no one may teach me  to handle the vessel of myself. Deborah has a headache and is, I hope,  asleep. At times I am overcome by her clear thinking and dynamic  energy. I am so glad you feel drawn to her. She is most balanced and  happy by nature. It seems we are to constantly be reminded that action  comes from some sort of illusion; things, even tragedies, heartbreaks,  narrow escape from being murdered or worse still from murdering,  looked at in the light of an old familiar lamp or under a tree of our  youthful days with one we love, all suddenly is as if it had not been 
    . and we wonder that such days of strife were of such import at  the time. Yesterday as Deborah put on a hat she had got 18 years  ago, she recalled the feel of its soft velvet that she had felt the day  she wore it first. ?(r)Mother how is it, he might have killed me! There  was a moment [ would have gladly killed him, yet the touch of this  velvet and all is suddenly as if it had not been and life is back where  it was 18 years ago.' 
    Right or wrong I assured; life is indeed dangerous, perhaps our  consciousness needs must know the dangers that our own latent  fears and impulses create. They lie near the surface and so we learn  wisdom and compassion, caution and the equality of our likeness to  those about us . . . It is all intensely, momentarily interesting if we  can be keen to our reactions. 
    In this last year of her life Sara's letters indicate that she suffered often  from depressing thoughts. World events in that year were giving cause  for depression as many of those Americans travelling abroad were to  find. Sara wrote her feelings to Rosalind on 19 June 1938 about a friend's  report from Europe just before she herself was to leave for the Ommen  camp with Deborah: 
    when people get to the sailing port . . . one doctor to every 8000  people . . . no money to just sit by till their turn ¡Ð the hope of  leaving. The fear of not getting away and hunger besides. A few 
    156  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    men so cruel to so many, and the whole world helpless to help. It's  too much to contemplate. It makes one really ill and heartsick. Yet  history repeats itself and will ever do so . . . What is to become  of the world and its poor stupid and horror loving people as well.  There can be no end to it all. 
    On 3 August 1938, Sara began a sixty-page diary letter for Rosalind,  who would not be at the Ommen Camp that year; this would be the last  camp ever held there. Sara's diary is quoted in part here as it gives a vivid  account of the effect of Krishna's talks on one perceptive individual,  struggling with intense personal problems, while adjusting to and trying  to help a daughter who had been lost to her for cighteen years. Sara was  neither a devotee nor a sentimentalist. She found much personal help in  Krishna's words and recognized that what Krishna gave to his audience  often went beyond words. He transmitted a highly charged energy that  could awaken within the individual a capacity to confront the depths of  his being. Not everyone responded to this force. Some feltit, then turned  it back into an adulation of Krishna rather than applying it to themselves.  Some complained that he offered neither method nor guidance, leaving 
    them to struggle alone. ?¡ãThose', he would say, ?(r)completely missed the  point.?¡À Krishna seems to have struck a chord that was already well-tuned  in Sara. She listened to him in her own independent way. 
    Aug. 4 
    K. opened his talk without preliminaries saying words were futile  ¡Ð and through them it was difficult to understand another. He or  we could not meet in a friendly basis if we looked upon him as a  teacher and he could not meet or understand those here with isms  or propaganda to expound . . . It would be a waste of his time to  discuss these things ¡Ð please leave all our propaganda and problems  behind. Few are living wholly in their great and burning desire to  live or act after their own manner and fullness. We must find out  what we really are and live it in action. To find this out we must  catch ourselves in the act with intelligent choiceless awareness . . .  He spoke of the necessity of great love of morality ¡Ð  ... I feel tired, and as if since 1934 there was nothing to be done  about anything. From then on though anxious about Deborah, felt  it was Rob's job to carry on, since for me it seems fiished which  is absurd. Nothing is ever finished . . . but as if this life and birth  were done; and held for me in this body no more interest and no  desire for rebirth. Perhaps ifI felt I could get over with this wheel 
    157  
 
                             here and now I might find renewed effort possible ¡Ð but my only  hope of any degree of enlightenment must now come not through  action, but through giving up ¡Ð utterly and completely ¡Ð but this  seems as 1if it must come from some sort of frustration of which I  am not aware or hardly conscious ¡Ð which at my age and after 10  years of studying Krishnaji's books as well as himself and my own  reactions a rather futile 10 years of introspection, certainly for me,  the more the mind and intellect and desire for knowledge enter into  it all the more stranded I become and farther from that deeper inner  happiness of unobstructed flow of life. Deborah and I were recalling  together K's talk. It seemed to mean more to her than to me. She is  more attentive to words, more literal ¡Ð she says perhaps I am looking  at too many angles and depths and degrees of meaning as he talks and  so miss much of what he is saying which was interesting in the light  of Amma [Mrs. Besant| saying she questions instead of listening, and  then questioning. 
    To Deborah K's reference to lying fallow was an inspiration, that it  was good and necessary. To me plowing, sowing, reaping and lying  fallow were all a weary process with nothing of the spirit. She thought  [ argued myself into pessimism which she felt was really foreign to me  ... I do not know. Glad at least to see she lives fully in the minute. 
    Frid. Aug 5  Met Rajagopal. He 1s anxious for fear Deborah will get involved in  some unfortunate acquaintance and situation. He is very wise ¡Ð she  certainly seems anxious to make contacts why I do not know and  surprisingly interested in people's names and getting them placed in  some way in connection with us. Several things often make me feel  she is still W's [Dr White, Deborah's ex-husband] agent in some way 
    ¡Ð but this is her, not my affair. Raja said he was trying to save me any  more unhappy situations through her and I should keep an eye on her  but I really cannot though am only too glad to be with her . . . Raja is  so often right I am glad of his warning of not too much freedom for her  here where he feels there are many undesirable ?(r)pick-up' possibilities  for her. It would be only too natural if she should in her happiness at  being free from White want to go on some bat or have some burst  of self-assurance and self expression with those about her.  Aug 6th  Last night I thought much about my selfishness, in being so much  alone ¡Ð the petty annoyances of the constant ?(r)excuse me's' ?(r)thank  you's'; tried to discover why the habit of being alone should result 
    158  
 
                   
Sages and Shadows 
    in a sort of frustration . . . Finally after a refreshing nap to find myself  much happier, freer and willing to have no time to myself at all. This  is something. Now I must understand why it is that having someone  stand over one, gesticulating, dynamic, repeating again and again the  same thought, explanation, narrative about things or people one is not  interested in, makes me embarrassed and nervous. I shall call on my  affection and realize | should be or am interested in what interests  her. Its all great fun and I am really so happy to have her here with  me, and she so dear, and grateful for all that life brings her. It is  good for me to learn from her and how another's mind works. I  find mine stops! I am impatient of ways to ends when perhaps only  the ways really matter. 
    This A. M. Krishnaji spoke so wonderfully, so clearly and it  seemed to me for the first time hopefully of our ultimate fulfillment  of happiness and reality. He spoke of nationalism and internationalism  and asked us to think upon it deeply ¡Ð our unfriendliness in camp over  national, political, financial or social barriers. 
    ?(r)We may all, you and I, all be bombarded and killed. So the  burning question is political and national. What are we going to  do about it? Nationalism results from a habit, a prejudice, from  egotism, or belief, in God being on our side. This has been led up  to by the habit in meditation. Those who meditate rely on a habit to  get them somewhere ¡Ð a habit is stagnation, will never lead to truth.  If you meditate find out why you meditate. Those who do not had  also better find out why they don't. I do not say I am for or against  meditation . . . 
    [ would suggest that for the next twenty-four hours those who  were in the habit of meditating give it up for just that time. To think  these problems over, not to gossip to visit but to alone think, deeply 
    ¡Ð after the conflict, the struggle, in the following calm might come  the miracle fulfillment, not to look for it or expect it, but it lay if at  all in the silence after the struggle.'  Yesterday then, he meant as Deborah thought ¡Ð It might come  only in the lying fallow after the tilling. I went too far in the idea,  feeling discouraged that after the lying fallow there was again only  the poor farmer preparing for his next job. 
    So I am left as one who does not meditate. Deborah thought it  might imply it would be good for those who did not, to try ¡Ð I  am not sure of this . . . [ had meditated and repeated mantrams and  taken part in vocal incantations, and the result was a power, as of  another using me ¡Ð my voice was resonant, full of assurance, the 
    159      power was strong though not ungentle like a prayer answered and it  made me feel perhaps that I was to use it for something and I wished  to do nothing with it, not to be a leader, a power in the E.S. service  through which it came . . . I did not believe in rituals, people got  foolish ¡Ð sanctimonious about them . . . I had asked for power and  it had come. It was wonderful but it alarmed me so I had given up  meditation but not quiet thought; concentration; which I think more  safe, intelligent and not, a retreat, or what K. might call an escape. 
    What was extraordinary about Sara is that, having felt this ?(r)power',  she preferred to relinquish 1it, unlike so many who would use such an  experience to promote their own spiritual importance. 
    Aug 10  Deborah seems to be making friends with many people, she seems  quieter, less jerky and dynamic, if not happier ¡Ð more thoughtful. 
    Today K said one must be ?(r)as spontaneous in fear, as in love'.  In an earthquake or a calamity when there is no escape something  surely happens ¡Ð only the real is left to us. 
    I feel that what K is talking about is much simpler than all this  discussion, but suppose I am not simple enough . . . | sometimes  feel this awareness is like sorting buttons or carding wool. It takes  constant diligence . . . K thinks to keep notes . . . or to write to  friends is to keep one's self in one's own ideas and nitches ¡Ð certainly  it often is to seem wiser than we are or to want to share, or show off  but about the notes I write am not yet sure if they hurt or help so  will have to think that out ¡Ð am sure I shall never re-read them so  perhaps its a waste of time to write. By putting reactions down he  may feel we crystalize them and refer to them when we once having  eliminated something need surely not go back to it. I notice when he  writes a letter or poem he does not make many comparisons ¡Ð just  the bird singing. 
    Aug 12  I feel deeply happy like the silent currents at the bottom of the sea  and if my mind and attention is drawn to the surface I do not leave  my depths but bring it to the surface as things happen. I cannot 
    solve problems but when alone am happy with the flow or stillness  about me in which one loses ones self without desire to do so. It is  indeed spontaneous and soon as I find my mind trying to analyze it  it goes . . . 
    160  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    I can see that all this writing i1s indeed quite useless, a waste of  time, for to put on paper what one gets out of camp is not a help  or the real thing. 
    I met K at the mechanic shop where he had his tire pumped up.  He looked a bit worried or anxious or tired, asked him if he was tired  he said no and it occurred to me there might be many people he had  tried to help and certainly did not ¡Ð some a little but none enough  and among them Rosie [Rosalind] I thought and I have been anxious  for her health for a long time. In 1936 would not say what the trouble  was which made me feel it was really serious with her and I felt at  QOjai K. tried to keep her quiet, unexcited, not overtired, early to  bed, so did not go to play chess in P.M. as she wanted to do for  fear it would keep her up and create a sense of competition which I  do not care about if it ever comes to that. Lay awake a long time last  night wondering if D. [Deborah] and I could join Rosie at Ojai and  Radha ¡Ð keep house, D. could cook until Raja came in late October  to be with her. He tells me she wants an operation for something 
    ¡Ð some pain. But I do not think it the appendix as he intimated. It  comes too quick and severe to be put off till he arrives as he said he  wrote her to do . . .  When she was in Ojai in the spring of 1936, Sara had evidently noticed  Rosalind's condition. She did not know the cause, but Krishna, who did  know, might well have been wondering here at Ommen, two years later,  if Rosalind was again pregnant or had suffered another miscarriage. ?(r)K.  paid us a visit. Felt there was something he wanted to talk about -felt 
    anxious about Rosie but asked him nothing about her . . .'  At the end of Camp Sara expressed her wish to come to Rosalind if  she were having an operation. 
    August 22nd, 1938  Dear Rosie,  . . . Rajagopal told me you were contemplating an operation for 
    the appendix or something and he had written you if possible to  wait for his arrival in L.A. . . . will you really truly let me know  dear Rosie if there is any way or place that Deborah and I could  help you or be with you to give you a real rest and look after you  a bit, so you can get built up before the operation. We know you  enjoy being with us both. This is not the question. The question  1s if we can be of use before or after Raja arrives. Our idea was we  might help with Radha or your mother. Do not want to bother or 
    161  
 
                             complicate anything . . . let me know if I can help personally or a  bit financially . . .  Always lovingly,  SARA 
    Whatever had been the matter with Rosalind was set straight by the  time Raja returned and no more was said about an operation. Sara did  not come to California that autumn. On 13 October 1938 from Sarobia,  she wrote her last letter to Rosalind. 
    this afternoon I picked a few leaves, glowing in mild golden stillness  of an embracing sun and sent them to you. By the time they reach  you they will be dry and wrinkled. They are only a forerunner of the  promise of the fall. The camp meant much to me. It was a stirring  one. At one time in Ojai I was impatient of it all and tried to forget  it. I think now my state of health was at bottom of that spell. You  were dear and asked me to come while you and K. read, and to share  his thoughts with me, and I would have none of it. Impatience got in  my way of enjoyment and gentle questioning ¡Ð what queer creatures  we are and how hard to know ourselves. One learns to value these  unhappy feelings and long after an impulsive something has cropped  up and it is recalled suddenly out of a clear sky and one says, now  [ know, this shows me what was back of that day. 
    I am glad you are feeling better. It will not be long as time goes  till we are all together again.  Goodnight,  SARA 
    Sara died six weeks later. Rosalind felt she had not fully appreciated  her friendship with Sara until after her death. She had not expected this  loss to be such a blow to her. They had shared so many attitudes and  so many interests; building, puzzles, chess, painting. It was only when  Sara was gone that Rosalind realized what a tremendous support this  deeply affectionate friendship had been. 
    From then on Robert took up a correspondence with Rosalind which  was very regular on his part, though not so on Rosalind's, who always  considered herself a poor letter writer. 
    Dec 8, 1938  Darling Rosalind,  Your very dear and understanding letter touched me very deeply.  know how dearly you loved Sara. 
    162  
 
                         Sages and Shadows 
    I too felt as you did about her pulling through because she had  pulled through several times before but her heart was weak and  gave out. 
    I am quite sure that although she fought gamely to the end her  ego had really decided to go on, feeling that when she got Deborah  back she had paid off a karmic debt and was free to escape into a  larger and truer world and be free of the irksome limitation of her  troublesome body. 
    Deborah was perfectly splendid through the ordeal and the funeral  but I am very sorry to tell you the bad news that the strain was too  great and she has broken down and is in a nearby hospital after trying  to kill herself. 
    Faithfully,  ROBERT 
    I too felt Sara's loss deeply. After she was gone Mr Robbie no longer  seemed the formidable person to me that he once had been. He was the  only person I knew who liked the Sunday comics and when he was in  Ojai, I would head up to Saro Vihara right after breakfast on Sunday  mornings and spend an hour or two absorbed in two sets of comics.  They weren't available at Arya Vihara because, out of frugality, we  didn't get a paper at all. Anyway the comics were frowned on for  me, but Mr Robbie never gave me away. I think, intellectual though  he was, he believed they represented an important sector of American  culture as did the radio programmes ?(r)Hopalong Cassidy', the ?(r)Lone  Ranger' and ?(r)Charlie McCarthy'. 
    If he was stern with me for mistreating an animal he could be just as  stern with my mother for mispronouncing a word, or eating peanuts  in the cat or singing a song like ?(r)Mama's little baby likes shortnin'  shortnin'', which he could then never get out of his head. 
    But he could write letters straight to a child's heart, mostly about  his or our animals. Once Sara was gone he retreated more and more  into this world of animals and he welcomed those who could share it  with him. He remained actively involved with the Anti-Vivisection  Society, various human rights and animal welfare groups, and the many  individuals whom he never turned away in their need. 
    The autumn, shortly before Sara's death, Blanche Matthias had invited  us to a dinner she was giving in the Town House Hotel in Los Angeles  for the famous Indian dancer Udai Shankar. The dinner followed his  performance and the dessert, a sculptured palace in different flavours 
    163  
 
                   
 
   
    of exotic ice-cream, regrettably made much more of an impression on  me than the dancer; even though the ice-cream never thawed enough  for us to eat it. 
    A few weeks after this memorable evening, Rosalind wrote: 
    Dec 12, 1938 
    Dear Blanche, 
    It was so nice to have your letter and thank you also for the enclosed 
    letter from Shankar. 
    It was a great shock to hear from Mr Logan that Mrs Logan has 
    passed away. You know how fond we were of each other and her 
    passing leaves me with a great sense of loss. I did not know I felt so 
    deeply for her and I was unprepared for anything like this to happen 
    to her . .. 
    When next I see you I want very much to discuss with you about 
    taking Radha to Shankar's new school. Raja is never very keen about 
    my taking Radha and living in India as he says the climate is so bad 
    but I want to very much. 
    This letter is characteristic of my mother who could turn in a sentence  from her grief and shock back toward her zest for life. Yet she felt  sorrow intensely. I have seen it often in her face, her blue eyes with  their innocence fill with silent tears as she bit her lip and gazed away out  the window. Then it would pass ¡Ð brightness would return. My father  attributed this changeableness to her being a Gemini ¡Ð an explanation  that she disliked. 
    Raja had long ago lost any desire to live in India; he returned only  because he had to accompany Krishna and to see his mother. At that  moment he was also pessimistic about the future of the world and  thought it sensible for us all to remain together in Ojai. 
    But Rosalind was restless. She had missed the past two summer camps  in Ommen. And Sara's death had left a great gap in her life. My father  usually seemed unaware of or unconcerned with the daily routine of our  lives and we saw him at most for dinner. But sometimes he was alert to a  particular discontent and then made an effort to be more of a companion  ¡Ðeven to the extent of walking with us. There was a steep climb behind  Arya Vihara called Twin Peaks. One day my parents and I did the four  miles to top. Such occasions of my father's companionship were rare  enough that I remember each distinctly. 
    On 20 June 1939, came another shock from Mr Robbie. It was written  coincidentally on my mother's birthday. 
    164  
 
                   
Sages and Shadows 
    Dearest Rozzie, 
    Deborah was buried today. She eluded the nurses and hanged herself  Sunday night just when the doctors were feeling much encouraged  about her recovery. 
    The last few times [ saw her she seemed so completely normal and  clear thinking that I began to think she might be able to shake off this  obsession of self-destruction and come back to Sarobia . . . However  I never really counted on her recovery for I felt the real damage had  been done years ago and that Sara's death only brought on an acute  attack. The tragedy really occurred twenty years ago when she fell  into Dr White's clutches and it is better to have her gone than to have  her spend her life in confinement and under a cloud of depression  and fear. 
    Robert had always claimed not to enjoy babies or very small children  but after two such terrible losses in one year, which he bore with outward  stoicism, he adopted both my mother and me as his closest family. 
    I should like very much to have a picture of you and a picture of  Radha or one of you both if you have no separate ones. If you haven't  had one taken with Radha you should do so before she begins to shoot  up and get gawky . . . 
    I miss you both very much for you are both close to my heart.  Affectionately,  ROBERT 
    Because of the war in Europe the Berkeleys could not make their annual  trips to Santa Barbara and in 1939 Molly had offered her ?(r)little cottage'  to us mor¡§| or less indefinitely. It was seldom that my father came over.  That summer he went on his own to Europe, leaving my mother and  Krinsh to enjoy Molly's offer. Molly's house was a castle to me. |  delighted in the silver wallpaper in the master bedroom and the sunken  black marble tub. There were servants' quarters and lovely grounds that  came complete with an Italian gardener. His lunch, consisting ofa raw  egg, carefully pierced at either end, sucked out of 1ts shell, and gulped  down with his homemade rootbeer, fascinated me. 
    At first Rosalind had been appalled by the size of the house and  decided to decline Molly's offer, but Maria Huxley loved it as it was  very Italian in design and situation. She persuaded Rosalind to accept  the house and showed her how to close off much of it and thus cut  down on the upkeep. 
    165      Mr Robbie, who even through tragedy, had not lost his light touch 
    wrote: 
    August 29, 1939  Dearest Rozzie, ,  I am so glad you and Krinsh are roughing it so successfully in  Lady Berkeley's little shack! I should love to be there with you.  I wonder if you could send me the negatives of three of the snap  shots you sent me so I could have them enlarged?  One is the picture of you sitting on the railing and looking a good  deal like a young girl graduate dreaming of Clark Gable.  The second is of Radha and Krinsh . . . and the third is of Radha,  you and Beato . . . 
    We had many visitors, among them Jinarajadasa and the Huxleys,  who came quite often, and sometimes brought their friend, Bertrand  Russell. Russell was spending that year in Santa Barbara having, like  Aldous Huxley and Christopher Isherwood, decided that England was  not just then a fertile place for pacifists. At least he found kindred  spirits among us though each of our group had his own very individual  approach. 
    In Santa Barbara Rosalind found she was pregnant for the third time  and now, somewhat recklessly, considered having this child. She loved  children and had always wanted more. The threatened cancer had not  returned and she had more or less forgotten all about it. Being thirty-six,  however, she realized the risks of a pregnancy were even greater than  before and was therefore partly testing Krishna when she told him  her feelings. He certainly made it clear that he didn't think it a very  good idea for them to have this baby. He didn't go so far as to put  into words that she must have another abortion, but he never needed  words to make his wishes clear, and again she got on the bus alone, he  solicitous and loving as ever and giving her the same tender care when  she returned. 
    166  
 
                         17 
    A Garden of Peaceina World at War 
    Krinsh was by far the most rewarding person to play pranks on. The  sour lime tree in the orchard bore fruit with juice that looked exactly  like the juice of an orange. Whenever I served this to Krinsh for breakfast  he gave a wonderful performance of surprise and shock. Putting frogs in  his bed met with equal success. The row of acacias leading from Arya  Vihara to Pine Cottage was on a route travelled by Krinsh at regular  intervals throughout the day. As he was a person of precise routinc it  was easy for me and my cousin David to know just when to hide in  a tree with a small pail of water ready to dump on his head. He never  scolded us for inflicting this considerable inconvenience on him and he  never failed us in reacting exactly as we hoped he would, sometimes  pretending he knew just where we were, holding his large straw hat  over his head and running -only to have guessed wrong. 
    That the peculiarities of our family did not make me in the least  self-conscious was due largely to my mother. She had a way of making  things turn out for the best, at least where I was concerned. When [  mentioned once that all my friends had turkeys at Thanksgiving time  and why didn't we, she came home one day with a pair of turkey chicks.  It didn't occur to me until much later that this was not the usual way to  serve up turkey. By dubious fortune the chicks grew into a male and a  female and when the time was right Mrs Turkey devoted a great deal  of effort to egg laying. Even the gobbler became distraught by her  obsession with sitting on endless batches of eggs. Finally he turned to  me for comfort. The huge bird, who weighed as much as I did, would  hop on to my lap and put his strange wattled head on my shoulder.  Indeed he so loyally attached himself to me that he slept on the railing  at the top of the outside stairs by my room and no one dared to go up  there without his permission. 
    When at length his forty offspring grew to full size the whole flock 
    would join us on our afternoon walks up the road toward Thacher 
    School; bad luck for any of the few cars that wanted to use the road 
    at that hour. There were heavy rains that winter and in one storm the 
    167  
 
                   
 
    bridge at the bottom of the road washed out and the one above us was  about to go. If that happened we would be cut off from the village.  There was a good deal of concern among the adults; the turkeys and 
    joined them near the bridge watching the water rampage over the  boulders and eat away at the pilings. The turkeys tilted their heads and  peered over the bank with amazement. 
    My friends came to watch our turkeys, whose favourite pastime was  tobogganing down the back of the Lincoln Zephyr, which was moulded  in one sleek slope from roof to bumper. If Krinsh felt annoyed that his  regular polishing and care of the car was futile, he never showed it.  After the next Thanksgiving had come and gone our turkeys were still  happily running around the garden. 
    When I was very young [ was spared the uglier of life's realities. One  summer we departed for our usual stay in Carmel. On our return to  Ojai all the young turkeys had gone. I sensed it would be a mistake  to insist on knowing what had happened to them. I was told they  had gone away as there was no one at home to look after them. It  was Willie, of course, who always dealt with that side of life, usually  sparing everyone else the details; however, I had heard him grumble  occasionally when Mr Robbie complained about the gopher traps. ?(r)You  can't have it both ways, if you want a good orchard, you have to get rid  of the pests.?¡À Not long after that, coyotes made off with Mrs Turkey  and my gobbler. That was my next loss after Sara, and as all children  in time must do, I was beginning to learn that grief is an inevitable  part of life. 
    Happily two goslings followed quickly on the disappearance of the  turkeys and soon grew into two enormous geese. Eggs began app- earing, fortunately from them both, so we were spared the problem  of any more gaggles of fowl. The eggs made delicious omelettes and  the geese seemed happy not to have to spend their time sitting on  them. Instead they became fierce guardians and attacked all those  they disliked, though their idea of friend or foe was never clear to  us. They particularly disliked ladies in stockings. I am sure there  were those who felt they were failing in their spiritual advancement  if geese so closely associated with Krinsh picked on them with such  outraged contempt. 
    My grandmother's health was failing in 1939 and Rosalind made frequent  trips to Hollywood to help Erma take care of her. Krinsh then became  my guardian as well as playmate, seeing that I ate properly, dressed  neatly for school, and showed responsibility for the animals. He was 
    168  
 
                   
A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    always protective and I felt completely safe with him, but David and  I often took advantage of his indulgence toward us. 
    Dearest Mummy, 
    The other day Krinsh and Davit and T all took a little walk and 
    found a dead snake on the road. We wanted to take it home. But we 
    did not want to carry that smelly thing all the way home so Krinsh 
    said that he would and when we got home we put the snake in the 
    garage and when Grace came down to bring the paper she saw the 
    snake. Then she began to scrime for she thought it was alive . . . 
    No doubt it was again Willie who had to dispose of the smelly snake. 
    But when it came to thought, Krinsh was another person. The gentle  easy-going nature disappeared and he could be as fierce with me, if I  asked or said something he thought stupid, as he was with his audiences  in the Oak Grove or at the small Sunday discussion groups at Arya  Vihara. 1 tried hard not to arouse this side of him for I found it  most discomforting and felt tender pity for those poor questioners  who recklessly laid themselves open to his scorn and impatience by  asking stupid questions. The pained look on his face should have been  enough to quell curiosity in the most determined seeker of truth, yet  they tried again and again. ?(r)What about life after death, reincarnation,  and belief (or disbelief) in an ultimate reality??¡À Imagine when I came  along and asked if he believed in fairies like our Finnish cook did! 
    ?(r)That', he said, ?(r)is like the three blind men and the elephant. The one  who feels the trunk claims it is a tree, the one who feels the tail claims  it 1s a rope =' 
    I don't remember what the third claimed but I got the point and  never dared ask the next question foremost in my mind ¡Ð did he believe  in Santa Claus? In time, as I grew older I realized that the very word  belief was not a question of what but of why. Why we wanted to believe  anything revealed our own psychology. It was important to observe and  experience; ourselves as well as the world around us, without labelling  or judging. Neither had Krinsh any regard for an accumulation of facts  or knowledge and ifI had been solely under his influence I would have  considered education a colossal waste of time. 
    Either for better or worse there were other influences on me. My  father taught me to read and write and do arithmetic and geography  long before I went to school and I treasured these times with him. Erma  came up from Hollywood almost every weekend and she taught me to  love books, history and nature. David and I would walk in the Ojai 
    169  
 
                   
 
    hills with her and learn the names of all the sages and grasses and rock  formations. She had a lovely singing voice; as a little girl I always wanted  her to sing me to sleep. Erma said of herself that she was an observer.  She never sought to be the centre of any situation but was content to  watch without criticism the goings on around her. | have never met  anyone who was more of a joy to be with than Ermie. Capable of  profound philosophical discussions, she also had a delightful sense of  humour. Krinsh called her Sister Erma, a pleasant familiarity that she  enjoyed. She was always different in her political views from the rest  of my adults, more conservative, and stood up to them very well with  her arguments, even against Krinsh, for she knew a considerable amount  of history which she had taught herself. Erma, like Sara, was one of  those rare women who grow more and more beautiful with age. 
    And then there were the Huxleys. Aldous and Maria came to Ojai  frequently. Even though Aldous was blind in one eye and could see  very little in the other, the intensity of his interest made him seem to  have keener sight than those of us with perfect vision. He was never  overbearing with his knowledge and with childlike delight ¡Ð like Krinsh 
    ¡Ð he would squat down on the grass with me and play with the geese  (which he named Toddleiums and Susielums, names soon reduced to  Toby and Susie by Mr Robbie. (The fact that Toby was a lady goose  was disregarded.) I was too young to be in awe of Aldous. I have a clear  vision of him, on those weekends, sitting on the lower lawn under the  large pine tree, typing a book. First, After Many a Summer Dies the Swan,  one of whose characters he said was loosely based on my mother, but he  would not tell her which, although he seemed surprised that she didn't  recognize herself. When he asked her how she liked the book she said,  ?(r)Aldous, I'm sorry but I can't honestly say I liked it.?¡À ?(r)Good,' he said,  ?(r)it was not supposed to be liked.'  Maria had a little Pomeranian called LouLou that went nearly every- where with her. She was not altogether an animal person, being of  the same super-fastidious nature as my father. Yet it was she who one  Easter, when we went to tea at their home in Los Angeles, presented  me with a baby goat. My mother took this unusual gift in her stride  and we took the goat back to Ojai, where eventually it was my job to  milk it, although it was never my favourite animal. Aldous shared our  family's love for animals and he and Maria had both become vegetarians  since their arrival in America. This was a bond between us all, as was an  affinity for nature ¡Ð particularly in Krinsh and Aldous. On their long  walks they would observe together, Aldous knowing all the names in  Latin and English of flowers, shrubs and butterflies. Krinsh, generally 
    170  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    disapproving of labels, but seemingly fascinated by Aldous's ability.  Their minds approached nature from such opposite paths and yet they  found harmony in each other's company. Aldous quoted a German  philosopher who once said the greatest joy is to pick your nose while  watching the sunset; Krinsh would say just watch, don't remark on it  or try to hold the beauty in your memory or it will be lost instantly. 
    loved going to the Huxleys. Something exciting always happened  around them. Once a rather mixed group of us including Bertrand Russell  with his sons, Aldous and Maria with their son, various Hollywood  personalities, plus Krinsh all went for a walk in what was then the back  country ¡Ð the hills of Los Angeles. Signs were posted everywhere against  smoking or fires and we were all scrambling illegally under barbed wire  fences, crossing private land and defying ?(r)no trespassing' signs. That  was all right but then the Russells all started smoking. That was not  all right, even with Aldous who understood by then the hazards of  our California dry season. But nothing deterred them ¡Ð~ until a deputy  sheriff appeared with a drawn gun and was ready to arrest the lot of  us. ?(r)Sure and I'm Bob Hope,?¡À he said when someone tried to explain  that none of us were criminals, in fact ?(r)There is a famous writer, there  a famous actress, and there a famous philosopher' ¡Ð however he let us  go after a good scolding about the cigarettes. 
    Dinners at Arya Vihara, even when we no longer had a cook and my  mother had to do everything herself, were formal in comparison to the  rest of the day. I can still picture my mother, in a long dress she had  made of Indian silk, at one end of the table with Krinsh at the other  end in a curved high-backed chair. When Mr Robbie or Aldous was  present, she gave up her place to him with Krinsh always sitting at the  far end. [ never remember my father sitting at cither end. 
    Everyone, even Krinsh, deferred to Mr Robbie. There was something  beyond his age that inspired this. After dinner we played poker dice with  Mr Robbie's beautiful Chinese eight-sided ivory dice or Monopoly, at  which my mother excelled. Even Krinsh played occasionally, always  looking a bit pained, but I am sure he would not have played if he  had not enjoyed it, for he never did anything he didn't really want  to do. In her autobiography, Beato described those evenings and how  they struck some people not in our immediate household. 
    Friends in Hollywood were excited whenever | went to Arya Vihara  and asked me to listen carefully to everything Krishnamurti said so  that I could report back to them. At first [ went to Ojai expecting to 
    171      hear talk of ?(r)higher' matters, and was surprised to hear conversations  that revolved around Rosalind's vegetable garden and the cow . . . 
    I longed to discuss such things as the third aspect of the Logos,  or the coming of the Sixth Root Race; but conversations usually  dealt with human affairs and the activities were unpretentious and  ordinary. In fact, everyone loved games, especially Monopoly. One  night Rosalind, who was a real shark at real estate, got everybody's  holdings and even bankrupted Krishnamurti. I sat there paralyzed  with boredom when Krishamurti, catching my distant gaze, suddenly  threw up his hands and said: ?(r)Beatrice has no idea what this is about  and never will. Don't bother with her anymore.?¡À I was enormously  relieved to withdraw myself from the encounter, which went on for  three more hours!! 
    It was seldom that Krinsh became involved enough to stick out a  game that long. He most enjoyed games which required no thinking  whatsoever. He would never have dreamed of playing chess. Most  often, promptly at nine o'clock, he would leave for his cottage after  having pulled out and carefully consulted his Patek Philippe. 
    Mr Robbie had a Patek Philippe also and he and Krinsh compared  their watches daily to the second. They tuned in to the government  time service in Virginia every Sunday on my father's short-wave radio.  I used to wonder how, in our kind of life, the exact time could matter  so much. I could see where the second hand was important to Krinsh  in his Yoga breathing exercises but not the hour hand. Perhaps perfect  punctuality was a remnant of Leadbeater's upbringing. 
    Although my upbringing seemed strict to me in comparison to that  of my friends, this strictness applied more to behaviour than activities.  There were relatively few activities in that time and place that could  lead to serious trouble. In the eyes of all of my parents, lying was the  worse offence ¡Ð no other misdemeanour could equal it; it was always  better to tell the truth and take the consequences. I interpreted this to  mean that I did not have to volunteer confessions that were not asked  for. Probably the naughtiest thing (and the most dangerous) that David  and I and an occasional friend did was to swim in the reservoirs on the  adjacent ranches. These wonderful large pools of only slightly slimy  green water nestled in the foothills and were used for irrigation. The  slippery sloping sides could be treacherous when little wet feet tried to  climb back out and drowning was not at all an unlikely possibility. None  of these dangers, of course, meant a thing on a hot summer day. One of  my earliest disillusionments came when I confided one day to Krinsh ¡Ð 
    172  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    only after he had crossed his heart and hoped to die if he betrayed our  secret ¡Ð that we had swum in the reservoir, although one at a time so  that the other two could help the swimmer out by lowering down a  pair of blue jeans to grasp hold of. We had thought this eminently  sensible and above criticism, at least from him who appeared to be  always on our side in our pranks. He did even then seem to be on  our side and offered not even the mildest scolding. I shall never forget  my overwhelming sense of betrayal when my mother called me in and  confronted me with this escapade, admitting that Krinsh had told her.  At that moment I lost my trust in him. I did not wonder then why he  had chosen to break his word rather than to take an adult stance and  deal with this small matter of discipline himself. He might casily have  explained that the situation was far too dangerous to indulge in childish  secrets and that he must be sure I would never do it again. I am sure  I would have disliked this approach but it would have preserved my  confidence in him. I was never to trust him with a secret again or  with any small personal problem that arose in pressing urgency in my  adolescent years. From then on [ went to the person [ would always  look to in serious moments ¡Ð my father. 
    In September 1939 Raja returned from Europe, after stopping in Detroit  on the way to California to pick up a sporty Cadillac convertible. His  new car was received by Krishna and Rosalind with no more enthusiasm  than his driving. Krishna displayed the same contemptuous reaction  as in 1924, when Raja turned up with a Buick. Rosalind felt it was  inappropriate for Raja to own a Cadillac. As it had been stripped of  its paint by a sandstorm while crossing the desert, Raja was persuaded  to turn it in, for a blue Ford Coup¡§|. 
    Before leaving Holland Raja had desperately urged his Dutch friends  to emigrate to America. He was convinced by what he had seen on  a side trip to Germany that as soon as the bumper German crop  was harvested, Hitler would turn westward and eventually march on  Holland. Only one family, the Vigevenos, believed him and with their  three children and valuable art collection, left everything else behind and  sailed on what was to be the last boat to America. After the war Annie  Vigeveno would learn that forty of her German relatives had died in  concentration camps. 
    I was shielded from most of the horrors of the war. My mother  saw to it that I heard none of the news broadcasts that Krinsh and  my father listened to every night. Fearing that the future held grave  uncertainty, she wanted my childhood to be normal and happy for 
    173  
 
                   
 
   
    as long as possible. At the same time I was encouraged to be aware  of individual misfortune. There were plenty of people around us who  had suffered from the war long before America's involvement. 
    One day while we were in Hollywood, I was invited by myself  to the Ingelmans' for lunch. There I met another guest, a large and  very morose French painter called Guy Ignon. I learned that he was a  refugee from France who had jumped ship in New York and swum  ashore, miraculously making his way to the West Coast. John and  Hilda Ingelman were trying to help him get papers and work, for he  was practically starving. Gloomy as he was, I took an instant liking  to him or perhaps felt it was in the tradition of our family to invite  such a person home to tea, which I did. He may have been somewhat  surprised at a very formally presented invitation from a nine-year-old  girl, but he did show up the next afternoon and my parents took him on.  They introduced him to the Vigevenos who, though recent immigrants  themselves, had already established a successful art gallery in West Los  Angeles. Ignon's fortunes changed from then on and he always looked  on me as his little mascot. He painted my portrait, which my mother  bought although she never liked it, for Ignon had painted me with  enormous eyes holding all the suffering in his own heart and more  besides. Even after he married a lovely young wife and had a son, he  still looked morose. 
    In spring 1940 my grandmother Sophia died. She had just undergone a  successful gall bladder operation and was recovering well in the hospital  when her doctor went off duty and forgot to warn the staft that she was  fatally allergic to certain medicines. When these were inadvertently given  to her, she instantly declined. With the doctor's permission, Rosalind  took her home to Gower Street, where she and Erma nursed her until  her death a few weeks later. During this time Aldous and Maria came  every morning and sat quietly in the living-room, not expecting to visit  or talk but just giving her their quiet support. 
    Erma describes this time in her diary: 
    We are really going through a great experience, and Theosophically  speaking, Mother must have some pretty good karma since she looks  very beautiful in her fading gradually and when the release comes she  will have doubtless been separated from all the denser matter and be  fully released just as we would all like to be. Dr Norris seems very  pleased with Rosalind and me for the way we are taking care of her,  since she is kept immaculately clean ¡Ð and we have established a quiet 
    174  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    peace in the house, it is almost like a sanctuary now, so all is well in  accordance with our beliefs ¡Ð if we may call our ideas that. 
    Erma always managed to balance gracefully between Theosophy and  Krinsh. 
    I was at school in Ojai the day my grandmother died. I remember  suddenly putting my head down on my desk and knowing she was  gone. When my mother came to tell me I said I already knew. I felt  her loss keenly for in her last years my grandmother had put her whole  focus on me and given me, among other things, her love of music.  After her death Christmastime was never again the special occasion  it had been while she was alive, for it was the one time of year she  came to Ojai. My mother and I, David, my aunts and Willie would  stand around the piano, which my grandmother still played beautifully  despite the arthritis in her hands, and would sing Christmas carols. My  grandmother sometimes inspired Willie to sing ?¡ãThe Ode to Joy' from  Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, remembered from his youth when he  sang in the chorus of the Vienna Opera. Of course, Erma's lovely  contralto added much to these occasions. I had heard of the musical  evenings in Buffalo and, despite the richness of interests and people  in our lives, I still missed being part of a musical world. It was  gone completely when my grandmother died. No one could play the  piano. Krinsh disliked the very idea of Christmas and made us all quite  uncomfortable about it; and all the underlying tensions in our house  seemed to be squeezed to the surface by this now empty celebration. 
    But what Krinsh lacked in Christmas spirit he made up for in small  daily rituals; the early morning flowers for my mother and the single  beautiful rose, fragrant with morning dew, on her birthdays. He told  me one should never smell a lower before it 1s given in order not to  detract anything from it. 
    Robert, sensing Rosalind's fatigue after Sophia's death, wrote to her  in May 1940. 
    [ am adding $100 to the check so that you and Radha can go to Sequoia 
    or Yosemite or somewhere for a couple of weeks of change and rest; 
    you certainly need it and must have it. 
    With much love, 
    ROBERT 
    My father also recognized how tired she was; in June he took us to  Sequoia National Park, in the High Sierras, in his Ford. As we entered  the park we saw a bear in the middle of the road. To my surprise and 
    175  
 
                   
 
    my father's distress, when I offered her a piece of chewing gum, she  showed her lack of appreciation by leaving a deep claw mark on the  running board. The wild park animals in those days had not yet been  spoiled by human beings, although feeding bears was forbidden as we  were soon told. This was the beginning of annual summer treks to  Sequoia, which continued through the war years. 
    In 1940 an early autumn gathering had been planned at Sarobia. My  mother went with Krinsh, this time leaving me in Ojai as I was about  to start attending the private and progressive Ojai Valley School. My  father was left alone in charge of me with Mrs Kaarna, our cook. It  was a happy time for me, but must have been hard for him. 
    Shortly after her return to California Rosalind wrote to Blanche: 
    Dearest Blanche,  Raja looks thin and tired as he is working hard . . . Since being home  I have had Radha three weeks in bed with the flu and [ have never seen  her so ill before. It is the first time I have ever had to call a doctor in  for her. Over six hundred people in Ojai had the flu. Krishnaji was  in bed a week with a slight bronchial disturbance and I have never  seen him in bed for over a day or so before. They are perfectly well  again and chipper than ever . . . 
    Rosalind's comment about Krishna's health is interesting in view of  the continual health problems he was said to have in his earlier days.  Actually he was very sound in those years and almost never caught colds  or flu, suffering only from allergies that caused some minor swelling  around his eyes and occasional coughing. 
    One day while my mother and Krinsh were still at Sarobia I looked out of  the dining-room window, which opened on to a long verandah running  the full length of the house. There I saw pacing up and down, a giant. |  ran to Mrs Kaarna who, since she believed in fairies should know if this  were indeed a giant. We called my father who let him in and discovered  that he was only the very tall husband of Iris Tree. Iris, along with this  husband, Count Frederick Ledebur, her son Christian and the whole  Chekhov troupe of actors who came with her to Ojai (many of them  pacifists, like Iris), would add a new dimension to our lives, particularly  my mother's and mine. They became a part of our lives separate from  Krinsh (who always acted slightly disapprovingly of Iris). Although Iris,  like the rest of our greater circle, faithfully attended his talks, Krinsh was  not the reason that Iris and her crowd had settled in Ojai. They had their  own very full and colourful lives and soon started a repertory theatre. 
    176  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    Familiar as we were with Hollywood, live theatre was for me a new  and wonderful experience. Iris Tree had been born to it. Her father,  Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree was knighted for his greatness as an actor  and was particularly famous for his portrayal of Malvolio in Twelfth  Night. Queen Victoria, as she touched her sword to his shoulder, had  repeated the lines from that play: ?(r)Some are born great, some achieve  greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.?¡À Thanks to the  Chekhov players, Ojai would be favoured for many years with first-rate  performances of Shakespeare, Chekhov, and many other classic plays.  Iris would also give wonderful parties, to which Charlie Chaplin and  other movie actors came. 
    Maria and Aldous had been old friends of Iris's in England and  had sent her to see us when she thought of settling in California. In  Rosalind's absence, it fell to Raja to help Iris. He had already disrupted  his usual routine to take care of me but, as we can see from the following  letter, he found time to effectively help Iris. It was typical of him to take  considerable pains in such instances, in ways of which few people were  ever aware. 
    Dear Mr Rajagopal, 
    It was so kind of you to have taken such trouble about me and 
    the house and I am most grateful ¡Ð 
    Please forgive me for having bothered you with it all when you 
    are so busy with many things. But I loved the place and was relieved 
    to get settled with the boy there ¡Ð always, having set one's heart, it 
    is hard to turn it away again . . . perhaps Mrs Grey (sic) will soften 
    about the dog. It was a great pleasure to have met you and I thank 
    you for all your hospitality and courtesy . . . 
    : -Yours sincerely, 
    IRIS TREE 
    Iris had fine blonde hair cut in a page-boy style which she rinsed  with carrot juice to preserve its colour. She had large violet eyes  and a mischievous smile. She could mimic anything from an egret  to Maria Huxley's charming, heavily inflected Belgian accent. Iris  never mimicked people to their faces, as she said that would make  them self-conscious. Neither did she ever mimic Krinsh in front of  us, although I suspect she often had a good time over that too. 
    While my father enjoyed her company he found her extremely  unfastidious habits distressing. He was once prevailed upon by my  mother to give Iris a ride back to Ojai from Los Angeles. She often  travelled with an array of animals. He met her on the designated street 
    177      corner never suspecting, until it was too late, that he would also have  to transport a large Nubian goat in the jump seat of his tiny, pristine  Ford Coup¡§|. 
    Iris was a creative cook and willing to serve up delicious vegetarian  fare, but her kitchen left something to be desired. Displayed in casual  array on the shelves and counters were open cans of cat and dog food,  paint, unwashed dishes and Iris's latest poem. At one dinner my father  found himself half-way through his spaghetti, which he had been politely  swallowing in spite ofa bitterness that he could not identify. Suddenly,  Iris remarked with a hearty laugh that she must have used linseed oil as  she was refinishing her desk and had poured it into the olive oil bottle.  It was some time before he could be prevailed upon to return there for  dinner. 
    Iris generously gave me a puppy from the litter of her rare and  beautiful white German shepherds. This was to comfort me for the  loss of my first dog Jerry-bo, given by Maria and named by Aldous.  Jerry-bo had run off and disappeared while we were living in Molly  Berkeley's house. 
    My pets were still a perpetual problem; trips to either Sequoia, Santa  Barbara or Hollywood made care of them difficult, although geese,  ducks, possums, skunks and chipmunks had all proved easier to handle  than a dog. Aldous named the German shepherd puppy Babs (after  Elizabeth Barrett Browning). When barely full grown, she ran on to  the road in front of Arya Vihara and was hit by a motor-cycle. My  screams and her howls of pain brought Krinsh and my mother running.  Krinsh then demonstrated his own considerable physical courage and  fortitude, for he allowed the poor dog to comfort itself by gnawing  on his fist. Babs.,was taken to the pet hospital and put into a traction  harness in the hope of restoring the use of her back legs. As always at  such moments, Mr Robbie offered to help. 
    June 1st, 1941 
    Dearest Rozzie, 
    The extra $75 on the enclosed check is to help out . . . with the 
    Sequoia cabins or with the hospital expenses for Babs or whatever 
    you think best. 
    Please write once in a while and let me know how you all are and 
    about poor Babs and Krishnaji's visa etc, etc. After all, you know, 
    you are about the only ?(r)family' I have left. 
    Much love, 
    ROBERT 
    178  
 
                   
A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    (One of the persistent problems that Raja had throughout the war 
    years was renewing Krishna's visa which he did successfully, though 
    sometimes needing some influential help.)  Krishna, my mother and I went off to Sequoia as usual that summer, 
    as Babs would be confined to the hospital for some time. Iris followed 
    us with her entourage soon after writing this letter: 
    Ojai 17.V1.41 
    Dearest Rosalind, 
    Late night in our valley, just home. The rivers are drying up and  the green is burning, but there are still flowers on my estate and geese  in yours. I think of you all with joy, Hollywood was Babylon and  ?(r)deletante living'?¡À without thought or love. 
    Party at Marion Davis in the gold and white Versaille they built  for her on sand . . . poor little milkmaid, calling her guests in like  cows to the stable, does she care if she is watched by Greuzes and  Gainsboroughs? Champagne, Venetian goblets, gossip, decay and  furtive terror with the waves beating so near ¡Ð But who am I to  preach, for there I sat enjoying my superior feelings . . . ah well 
    . what else? ¡Ð Earl Carrols vanities. Ninety naked ladies of exactly  the same pattern in patriotic brassieres, smiling and kicking in perfect  time to a deafening orchestra while the audiance watches and eats and  drinks at the same time. So there is progress . . . whatelse? . . . nothing  beautiful or gay? yes, the Gipsies, the fiddle, that forgives everything 
    . what an exquisite instrument, what companionship between it  and the player and the listener what concentration set free into what  ease and joy ¡Ð 
    I have no fiddle and the typewriter wont spell. This is the season  of thc ants. 
    On saturday maybe I shall go look for you in the big trees, bringing  Boon and the dogs and so much love. Please don't have gone and  don't be disturbed and at the same time don't have forgotten me  ... I hope you like it all and are happy. If you see a cabin please  tell it to wait. 
    Yours,  IRIS 
    P.S. Babs is a little better.  The arrival of Iris and her family was a welcome change for me. Now  instead of playing by myself all morning, reading or feeding chipmunks  and deer, I had friends who would take me along on their horseback 
    179  
 
                             rides, make lovely camp-fire picnics with Iris's antics and mimics and  pantomimes for entertainment. And there was her son Chris (Boon),  older than me, but never showing impatience at being trailed after by  a pigtailed ten year old. : 
    There were also, each summer, one or more devotees; single ladies  who discreetly took a cabin far from us and were content to get one  daily glimpse of Krinsh as he walked to the village for the mail. Peeking  from under his large straw hat, I could see he knew they were there  watching, but he never acknowledged them for he was supposed to  be in retreat. For Iris and the Huxleys and certain friends ?(r)retreat' was  modified, although no one ever dared be quite as funny or naughty  when Krinsh was around, even Iris. 
    After we had gone back to Ojai, Iris stayed on and wrote: 
    Goodbye and greetings to you ¡Ð come back soon to the trees ¡Ð they  are dark now, full of shadows and bears and its a bit homeless in our  village of one-night-cabins all about to start down hill ¡Ð 
    How 1s it in the valley and what did you take down with you?  -you left a lot up here ¡Ð food and tasks and many things not on  the list - 
   Come back to the rivers ¡Ð  Come back to the meadows  they will spring green again,  leap again ¡Ð flower, faun,  waterfall ¡Ð come  back to the trees,  light silence, murmuring bird ¡Ð  But wherever you are  it all goes with you ¡Ð  from the tops of the hills ¡Ð whether you  come back or not ¡Ð and  love from us. 
    IRIS 
    When we returned to Ojai we found poor Babs had not improved, but  she quietly died before the decision had to be made to put her down. 
    Before there was any certainty of America entering the war, Rosalind  had arranged with a friend in England to send over thirty British orphans  whom she planned to care for at the unused Star camp buildings until the 
    180  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    war was over. Just how was not totally laid out, but would have been  dealt with no doubt with her usual practicality. At the last minute, with  the orphans nearly aboard and papers and sailing all arranged for, the  British government cancelled the project, deciding the voyage would  be more hazardous for the children than remaining in England. Rosalind  then diverted her efforts to producing food for our household and a good  part of our immediate community of friends and fellow pacifists so, as  much as possible, to be self-supporting and no burden on the world's  food supply. 
    Life soon became nothing but heavy work, particularly for my  mother, with Krinsh and me helping a great deal. We bought a gentle,  tame cow which I named lolanthe. Willie showed us how to milk  her after extracting a promise that he would not have any further  involvement. He alone knew what having a cow meant. He also warned  and was proved right that it would cost more to feed that one cow than  to buy milk in the store. But cost was not the chief object and even  Willie did not know then how welcome her butter and cheese would  be in the coming period of rationing. There was a plentiful vegetable  garden, all planted according to the latest US Department of Agriculture  pamphlets. Rosalind had sent for these, along with instructions on cheese  making and dairy procedures. We had beehives from which we extracted  honey. Every summer the fresh fruit was dried under screens on the  roof and sent along with other produce through the agency of CARE  to Europe. There was endless canning of tomatoes, beans and fruit.  Fortunately for Iolanthe, Krinsh developed an allergy to her for she  didn't like the feel of his chronically icy fingers and would turn her  head around to glare at him and invariably plop her foot in the milk  pail. So milking was out of the question for him; instead he gathered  the cowpats and tossed them on the compost heap and hosed out the  barn in his high rubber boots. My mother and Krinsh worked the  vegetable garden together. We even tried a hydroponic garden which  an Indian friend of ours, called Sharma, had just developed for the US  Navy. Krinsh was supposedly spending most of his day in retreat but  actually he seemed to prefer, or felt an obligation, to hang about my  mother during the long hours of heavy work. [ milked the cow every  morning before breakfast and then again before dinner. Although I went  to a private school, I took the public school bus and Krinsh never failed  to walk with me to the road where the bus stopped. He waited discreetly  behind the rock wall until he saw me safely oft. When the bus returned  me 1in the afternoon I watched the tip of his straw hat moving along  behind the wall until I met him at the driveway. He never embarrassed 
    181  
 
                   
 
    me by showing himself, nor did he upset my sense of independence by  making me feel his presence was anything but companionable. Krinsh  always took an afternoon walk when there wasn't a badminton game  on. He tried to coerce my exhausted mother into going along and  sometimes we all went with the cow in tow. She liked to graze along  the road in the grassy season and this saved on the cost of alfalfa. Maria  and Aldous turned up one day with a large barrel-shaped butter churn.  Thereafter, making butter became a regular routine. Frieda Lawrence  sent an encouraging letter: 
    Dear Rosalind, 
    I want to send you my greetings because it is a pleasure to think  of you these days and all of you & your goodwill, when the world  is so full of bad will ¡Ð 
    A woman brought me the life of Krishnamurti by Ludowic Rebault  and I was so very interested in Krishna's fight with those dumb  theosophists! Always the same story! It reminded me so much of  Lawrence in another way ¡Ð and the things Krishna says are much  like Lawrence. All big men have really the same ultimate source of  the vision, only each in his own individual way. 
    Maria wrote some time ago that you made butter & it is a success.  I hope you are all well; it is a joy to think ofa child like Rhada [sic]  to have so much love. 
    My kindest greetings and wishes to you all ¡Ð  FRIEDA 
    Being a pacifist in that era was a considerably less popular position to  hold than it is today, especially when the fascist atrocities began to come  to light. When confronted with the question: what alternative to war is  there against such evil forces? the answer might be much the same as that  ofa doctor of preventative medicine being asked to cure a terminal lung  cancer patient. Solutions based on certain medical or moral philosophies  must begin at the source, before the disease has started and progressed to  a critical stage. The doctor would have told his patient to stop smoking  years before and the pacifist would be constantly alert to alleviating the  causes of war. Unfortunately those in power throughout the world are  seldom, if ever, pacifists. 
    Robert Logan and Aldous Huxley, on either side of the Atlantic, had  striven hard and eloquently to offer peaceful solutions to the alarming  rise of fascism in the early 1930s. They had very similar philosophies.  In his pamphlet Case for Constructive Peace, Aldous wrote in 1936: 
    182  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    War is a purely human phenomenon. Animals kill for food . . . fight  duels in the heat of sexual excitement . . . Man is unique in organizing  the murder of his own species. War is not a law of nature. The old  saw about the survival of the fittest is obviously nonsensical ¡Ð active  warfare tends to eliminate the young and strong . . . aerial warfare  kills indiscriminately . . . 
    The whole philosophy of constructive pacifism is based on a  consideration of the facts of personal relationship between man and  man. 
    There are men who profess to be pacifists in international  politics, but who are tyrants in their families, bullying employers,  or unscrupulous competitors . . . [It is not| possible for a government  to behave as a pacifist when the individuals it represents conduct  their affairs in an essentially militaristic way. Constructive peace  must be first of all a personal ethic . . . Means determine ends 
    . the only right and practical policy is one based on truth and  generosity. 
    Aldous went on to lay out a practical plan through a conference of  the great powers to deal with Mussolini's aggression against Abyssinia  and to try to settle some of the injustices of the Versailles Treaty. After  which he continued: 
    The greatest immediate sacrifices . . . will have to come from those  who possess the most. These sacrifices, however will be negligible  in comparison with the sacrifices demanded from us by another war.  Negligible in comparison even with those which are at present being  demanded by the mere preparations for war. 
    And with the full impact of his enormous eloquence, he concluded:  ?(r)One generous gesture on the part ofa great nation may be enough to  set the whole world free. 
    Ojai was to become a haven for pacifists during the war. There were  many faces of pacifism among us but Aldous, Mr Robbie and Krinsh  all believed that peace must be a clear issue within an individual before  he could publicly promote it. Also they recognized that during the fever  of war political pressure was no longer feasible. 
    Rosalind had her own very strong tradition of pacifism and was in  no sense simply following along with Aldous, Mr Robbie, or Krishna  when she wrote to Blanche her feelings about the darkening scene in  Europe. 
    183  
 
                   
 
      Dearest Blanche, 
    . . . I am so afraid of all the movements that are being started  to try and make peace in Europe. They seem to close our eyes  to the things that are happening here and might easily lead us  into war. Considering that we are supposed to be rank idealists  sound very realistic, don't you think? I think if some of the heads  of government were a little more realistic they would try and find  some other solution than war for their problems. People are so taken  up with the outside chaotic problems that they have no time to know  what living means . . . 
    The inevitability of war was coming ever closer, and again Rosalind  wrote to Blanche, her tone even bleaker than the year before. 
    Feb 14, 1941  Politically everything seems more and more confused and I wonder  if we will ever know the truth about anything? The more one tries  to have an open mind the more everything seems to go right through  it and one is left with nothing at all. One can't see very far ahead  can one? 
    And then on 9 December 1941: ?(r)Now the conflagration is complete.  If you come out to the coast you had better come to us here. The  world is mad.' 
    Early in 1942 Raja sold the Star Trust office in Hollywood and moved  all the work to Ojai. Jon D. Davidson, the architect, who was designing  a house in Ojai for the Vigevenos, designed a small apartment for Raja  over an office and fireproof room situated in the orchard next to Krinsh's  Pine Cottage. Raja had no inclination to move into the m¡§|nage at Arya  Vihara. He appeared only for dinner at the big house, never for lunch;  sometimes Krinsh took him a breakfast tray. 
    My father had always remained behind the scenes and seemingly  enjoyed that spot. But he had never liked being referred to as Krinsh's  secretary or manager. Neither did he like being asked by countless old  ladies what Krinsh ate, when he meditated and other personal details.  Nevertheless he had always shouldered this nuisance side of his life as  part of his work. 
    It was a bit much when he was blamed for Krinsh's misdemeanours.  Once my mother and 1 were having tea with an elderly lady in Santa  Barbara and Rosalind mentioned that Krishna had been caught speeding 
    184  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    on the way down from Carmel. ?(r)Oh no!' she said, ?(r)It must have been  Rajagopal. It couldn't have been our dear Krishna.?¡À My father had not  even been in the car. Another incident that had particularly galled  Raja occurred a few years before in India. He and Krishna were being  accompanied to the airport by their very wealthy and elderly host,  who, as he said goodbye to Krishna, pressed into his hand a large  wad of money. Krishna dropped it on the ground as if it had been a  snake. He said, ?(r)I don't handle money, give it to Rajagopal,' leaving  it in the dust for someone else to pick up. 
    Yet in spite of their quarrels, Raja's affection for Krishna never seemed  to waver. His isolation and pessimism increased, but everyone in our  circle seemed pessimistic in those war years. (Aldous would sometimes  arrive in such a state of gloom that Maria would beg us to leave off all  war talk for a few days.) Raja enjoyed much of that part of his life that  he could keep separate from Krishna and Rosalind. He was a person  who was most content when working and was fortified in this attitude  by Willie, who fully shared it. 
    Willie Weidemann was probably the person closest to Raja, who had  taught Willie to do all the accounts and book work connected with  running the ranch and Star Publishing. He and Raja shared a similar  sense of humour, which included seeing American ways through the  eyes of the foreign born. They had many laughs over the latest popular  songs like ?(r)T've got spurs that jingle jangle jingle " and American idioms  and dialects. There was a couple called the Hawkins who had come out  from the dust bowl of Oklahoma. They helped with the orchard and the  housework. Both Raja and Willie soon adopted many of their phrases  like, ?(r)Everything's did that oughta be did', and ?(r)Go straight down there  and don't tyrn no whichaways.' 
    We still managed to get up to Sequoia, despite the petrol rationing  during the war. We only went to the village once a week and perhaps  once a month to Santa Barbara. Thus we saved enough coupons for  the one long drive to the Sierra. 
    My father spent just a few days each summer at Sequoia, finding a  ride up and returning with us to Ojai. He was markedly not conforming  to Krinsh's quite rigid daily routines. He always had his own little cabin,  as did Krinsh, while my mother, David and I shared a bigger one where  we did the cooking. I would visit my father in his cabin every morning  and he read me the story of Amos or some other prophet or saga from  the Bible, probably because the Bible was provided by the Lodge and  there was nothing else to read except magazines with terrible war news,  from which I was protected. A few years later when the Modern Library 
    185  
 
                   
 
    brought out a translation of Dostoevski's The Idiot, Krinsh brought it to  the mountains and, in turn, it kept us both busy. I lay on a fallen giant  sequoia near our cabin and read all morning, giving him the book in  the afternoon. ' 
    Each summer we took long walks in the High Sierra, capped by a  final strenuous hike for which we had spent our entire vacation getting  in condition. My father would arrive from QOjai a few days before  this exploit and refuse to get out of bed all day. Krinsh would do  all he could to persuade him to exercise, but without the least effect.  When the morning of the big hike came, my father was up and ready  with the rest of us. Much to our surprise and Krinsh's mixture of  annoyance and amusement, he beat us all to the top of the peak and  back (a twenty-mile round trip) without any evident ill effects, more  than could be said for the lot of us, including Krinsh. Whether he did  this deliberately to annoy or was just functioning on his own track we  never knew. 
    One summer in Sequoia, a few days before we were going to leave,  we found a tanager with a broken wing. My mother crocheted a delicate  sling for her and very soon the little bird was so tame that she would sit  on our fingers and let us hold her up to the windowpane to snap up live  flies. We had to take her back to Ojai with us as her wing was still far  from mended. 
    Our habit was to leave late mid-afternoon to avoid the valley heat  and arrive in Ojail about ten at night. We usually carried a picnic  supper as Krinsh hated eating in restaurants, but this particular time  we had neglected to do so and were forced to stop at a little caf¡§| in  Bakersficld. None of us, not even my father, noticed the sign on the  door which stated that the establishment reserved the right to refuse  service to anyone. We certainly looked no worse, in our blue jeans and  sneakers and with Krinsh in his straw hat trying not to be recognized,  than any of the other patrons of that rather grimy diner. We were taken  for migrant farmers or braceros, or whoever else the caf¡§| owner decided  he had the right to refuse service to, and were asked, not very politely,  to leave. Even the little bird perched on my finger did not soften him.  Standing somewhat in shock outside the door, we heard a gentle voice  say, ?(r)I witnessed that. It is disgraceful and [ feel ashamed for my town.  insist that you let me take you all to a decent place for dinner.?¡À We could  hardly refuse and followed the man to a fancy restaurant with white  tablecloths which welcomed us, blue jeans, bird, vegetarianism and all.  It turned out, surprisingly enough, that even in Bakersfield Krinsh had  been recognized. 
    186  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    The little tanager became one of our most loved pets, and although  the wing never healed well enough for her to fly, she seemed to enjoy  her life in our care. Our cat Minnie exhibited extreme jealousy towards  the bird. We were careful to keep her locked in the house when we  had the bird outdoors. One afternoon Ignon, our French painter friend,  came for tea. He, among all our friends, had a special love for the bird.  Suddenly, out of nowhere, Minnie sprang, grabbed the bird and dashed  out of reach under the house. I was heartbroken; Ignon was so furious  he swore he would kill the cat if he could lay hands on her. Minnie  knew enough to keep out of sight for over a week. But she lost a great  deal of our affection. 
    Before the Japanese residents in California were interned, Rosalind had  ordered seventy-five newly hatched chicks, the last batch that would  be sexed as eggs by the Japanese, who were said to be the only people  with the ability to tell from the eggs which were to be hens and which  roosters. My mother, Krinsh and I drove to the train station in Ventura  late one night to pick up our precious cargo and brought the little chicks  home to the coop that Krinsh and Willie had built. There was not one  rooster in the batch. We soon found that a rooster was necessary to keep  peace among the hens and scare off the weasels. We added a big iridescent  black cock of the walk called Hercules. Every Saturday, Krinsh, David  and I scraped out the chicken coop. Krinsh seemed to take on the most  menial chores with a hearty enthusiasm. I collected the eggs and fed  the chickens and in the process made pets of all seventy-five hens and  Hercules, who dominated their lives. Several hens had a name from  Greek mythology, which I was studying in school at the time, and I  claimed to know each one by her voice. 
    Soon egg production was going full tilt and we even had a surplus to  preserve in vats of lye for the lean season. Eggs were sorted and cleaned  and sold to neighbours and devotees, who probably thought they had  special qualities, as it was known that Krinsh helped in all this. 
    There was such a demand for our produce that we bought another  young cow called Tina, who had been an orphan and hand-fed by bottle.  She was so well-bred that I could bring her into the living-room and she  never once misbehaved. Neither did Hercules who, with one or two of  his privileged hens, ate their dinner in a common bowl alongside the cat  under the kitchen stove (usually while my mother was trying to cook  dinner). 
    Just before dinner was also the favourite hour for Norbert Schiller, 
    the Austrian actor and poet, to arrive. He had built his own round 
    187  
 
                   
 
    stone house down the road, and would walk up to Arya Vihara and  right into the kitchen with his goat. The goat nibbled on the tablecloth  or Krinsh's straw hat while Schiller produced a very smelly goat cheese  from his leather pocket for our meal. This was indeed most generous of  him for he lived almost solely on goat cheese and the mustard greens  and avocados which he picked from our orchard. Eventually he would  prosper by getting character parts in films. In those days no one in Ojai  prospered, nor did they appear interested in doing so. Money played  but a small part in any of our lives. 
    Although he was sympathetic to our endeavours, my father took no  active part in the farming at which we worked so strenuously during  the war years. He kept himself busy in his office, but Krinsh, prevented  by the war from his customary travels, would probably have been bored  and restless without all his chores. 
    Life on the farm got harder. The two ranch hands were drafted,  leaving only Willie who, as manager, was exempt. The initial excitement  of getting the enterprises going wore offa bit and the endless realities  of labour and the demands of the animals became all we had time or  energy for. Yet with the world in the state it was, we felt exceptionally  fortunate. 
    Rosalind worked from six in the morning till after dinner each night.  In addition to the farm work she still made my few good clothes and  my father's and Krinsh's good shirts and nightshirts. Most of the time  we wore blue jeans and denim shirts, except my father, who stuck to  his old English grey flannels. 
    Eventually we were allowed to provide agricultural labour for two  young conscientious objectors who came to stay at Arya Vihara and  help there as an alternative to war duty. One of them, Bill Quinn, had  gone to Harvard and was deeply influenced by Thoreau. In fact, he was  far better at quoting Thoreau than wielding a pitchfork, but in time his  gentle ways won over even the cows. Life at Arya Vihara suited him  perfectly. He had a fondness for the animals which was a requirement  in caring for them as the two cows, all seventy-five hens and Hercules  were my personal pets. 
    Rosalind did her best to keep up a correspondence with her closest 
    friends. To Blanche, in November 1942, she wrote: ?(r)We are well and 
    busy. A friend who has not seen Krishnaji for months says she has never 
    seen him look so blooming. So now you will be able to put down the 
    New York rumors of death and illness. Raja is one moment seemingly 
    all right and the next not so well.?¡À The false rumours had brought wires 
    of condolence about Krinsh's supposed death. 
    188  
 
                   
A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    Mr Robbie, ever faithful with his letters, must have been one of  Rosalind's prime diversions during these years. He had a light touch  in everything, even in expressing his strong feelings about the war: 
    Jan 5, 1943  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Aside from the cold and the rationing and the taxes everything  is better ¡Ð better than next year! Mabel [his secretary] and I have  reserved passage on the American Airlines for L.A. and hope that  the O.P.A. and the W.P.B. and the Japs and the Germans will not  prevent our going . . . 
    Aug 25, 1943  Have you read about the ?(r)Big Inch'? the 24 inch pipeline which has  just been completed from Texas to Pennyslvania and New Jersey. It  has broken twice since it was completed last week and thousands of  acres only a few miles from here have been ruined and the Nesharminy  Creek and the Delaware River have a scum of oil on them which has  killed thousands of fish. Nice going! And now the only man in the  Cabinet ¡Ð Sumner Welles ¡Ð has been fired because old lady Hull and  the Southern voters thought he had too many brains. 
    Sept 23, 1943  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Beato recently wrote quite incidentally something so nice about  you and so cleverly phrased that I must share it. She said: ?(r)I have  not seen Rosalind nor Rajagopal since you left. I long for a glimpse  of Rosie, she has the power to dispel with such quick immediacy the  thickness of everyday life.' 
    That is a gem of a sentence and in your case, dear, it is true. How  are you and Radhi and Raja and Krinsh and the cows and the bees  and the chickens? Don't feel you have to write, but a line 1s always  appreciated. 
    too put my oar in the pacifist cause by volunteering my father to  counter-argue a March of Time newsreel on India that had been shown  in my school. Even at eleven, I was outraged by the broadside attack  on Gandhi and asked the headmaster if he would invite my father to  give a truer picture. This he willingly did and then asked me for a little  background on my father ¡Ð a tall order which I simplified by saying,  ?(r)When he was a little boy he was so poor he stood around garbage 
    189  
 
                      pails to catch the crows to eat.?¡À I have no idea how this image of  my Brahmin, vegetarian father could have entered my imagination or  what mischievous impulse came over me. Just before Raja had to give  his talk the headmaster asked him if he had really lived on crows as a  young boy. My father was so baffled by this question it is a wonder  he could talk at all, but he did and, much to my pride, so brilliantly  explained Gandhi's actions and philosophy that not only the headmaster  but most of my friends changed their attitude toward India ¡Ð in spite  of my crow story. 
    The old days of beautiful pergolas and roses and lily ponds at Arya  Vihara vanished with the war and the need for all our effort to go into  productive activity. As Mr Robbie observed: 
    Jan 6, 1944 
    . . . I am sorry about the pergola which Sara took such pleasure 
    in building. I should have been glad to help repair it but I suppose 
    Willie, Raja and Krinsh felt that it was of little use and should be 
    replaced by something that would bring in a return . . . 
    Please forgive me for dragging you into this S affair. I don't 
    know what she has in mind and doubt if she does either so [ tried 
    out the formula for success in Washington: ?(r)Shoot the bull, pass the 
    buck and make seven copies of everything!' 
    Love, 
    ROBERT 
    Mr Robbie was referring to an unbalanced lady who had been  troubling him over her fixation on Krinsh, wanting Mr Robbie to  intercede on her behalf. 
    As is to be expected around people like Krinsh, there was never a  shortage of unbalanced people; most of them quite harmless but some  creating a good deal of consternation. One could only hope that, as  Aldous put it in one of his later talks, the lunatic fringe did not become  like a Spanish shawl where the fringe is greater than the shawl. In some  instances Krinsh exacerbated the problem by not dealing with them de- cisively in the first place. A few were bordering on the dangerous. One  of these cases was a supposedly crippled and semi-bedridden woman  who lived down the hill from Arya Vihara. She wrote several pitiful  letters to Krinsh and he finally agreed to go and visit her, which he  then continued to do regularly. One day I answered the front-door  bell to find a stout unkempt woman standing there on her crutches. 
    190  
 
                         A Garden of Peace in a World at War 
    I immediately guessed her identity, which was confirmed when our  cat Minnie, who herself had become slightly demented after the bird  incident, took one look at the woman, arched her back and hissed. |  felt my elders should have taken this as a serious warning, but they did  not do so. 
    Another day my friend Ellen and I, walking in the hills, saw this  woman charging down the path with her crutches tucked under her  arm. I told Krinsh I thought he was being deceived. My mother began  to receive anonymous letters threatening terrible consequences if she did  not get out of Krinsh's house. Finally Mr Robbie was accosted by the  woman, who threatened him with her crutch. This was taken seriously.  Thanks to the unorthodox co-operation of the post lady (who gathered  and delivered the mail in her Model A) my father was able to prove  where the letters came from. After much difficulty, legal action was  taken and the threatening member of the ?(r)fringe' banished from the  state of California. 
    One of our harmless members of the ?(r)fringe' seemed fairly normal  by day but on moonlit nights would wander up and down the road  in front of Arya Vihara with her long white hair streaming down  her back, chantuing Krishnaji-i-i-, Krishnaji-i-1. My mother had made  a dressmaker's form which probably accounted for the rumour started  by this woman that Rosalind kept a skeleton in her closet. That papier  mich¡§| form of my mother must have terrified the poor moonstruck  lady, but perhaps it taught her to keep out of other people's closets. 
    Although I had been strictly brought up by Krinsh not to indulge in  beliefs (which had effectively done away with fairies, leprechauns,  Santa Claus and God), I was astonished one night to discover that  ghosts fell' into another category, although just what category I was  never to discover. I sensed already that ghosts might not fall in the  realm of belief. But no one in our family had ever mentioned them in  the realm of personal experience either. Once I saw a startled look on  Krinsh's face when I matter-of-factly stated that [ had seen Nitya's ghost  in the hallway. There was something in his expression that forbade my  making further play of this, which was all it had been. I knew that  Nitya had died in the front room but he was in some ways alive to  me even though I had never seen him. My mother had spoken of him  often and of her times with him, reading poetry and singing, and I had  picked up some of her nostalgia. He was seldom mentioned by Krinsh  or my father. 
    One evening at dinner my father said that for the past three nights 
    191      someone had been entering his fireproof room, which was double- locked and impossible to break into. The metal door made a peculiar  clang when it shut, no matter how careful one was. Each night he had  investigated and found no sign of a person. ?(r)It must be a ghost,?¡À he  said. My mother looked annoyed by the story and put no credence  in the idea of a ghost, which she was determined to lay to rest. She  did have some anxiety that it might be a person, one of our ?(r)fringe'  perhaps. Krinsh suggested that the three of us, without telling Raja,  take turns keeping watch all night from his veranda, which overlooked  Raja's office. Of course, I thought the whole thing a great lark and felt  sure that was indeed all it was until, when it was my turn to keep the  watch, Krinsh said to me in utmost earnestness, 
    ?(r)Kittums, remember this: a ghost can never hurt you. It can only  make you think it has hurt you.' 
    At first, I was inclined to assume he was only adding a little spice to  our adventure, but when I looked at his face [ knew he wasn't joking.  He was really nervous about leaving me alone out there. Nothing  whatsoever appeared that night and the next day we asked my father  if he had heard his ghost. Most disappointingly he replied that there  had been no sounds all night. So the mystery was never solved, but  the sounds never recurred. 
    The war was nearing its end, and reports came from Europe that were  more and more horrifying. Not until then had Annie Vigeveno known  that over forty of her family had died in the gas chambers. Ommen  had been used by the Nazis as a concentration camp. Some friends had  died and some had survived, but Ommen would never be the same and  Krishna would never return there. 
    Mr Robbie wrote, ?(r)I am sorry too about Mrs Vigeveno. [ am afraid  Germany earned her fate by allowing a crazy fanatic to dictate her  policies and alienate from her the whole common sense (even if largely  hypocritical) world.?¡À And in reference to a smaller private war, he  commented, ?(r)Did you know that George Arundale has repudiated 
    ¡Ð for himself at least ¡Ð= Co-Masonry, the L.C.C. and the E.S.? He  says the only essential teaching of theosophy is brotherhood; too bad  he didn't think of that sooner.'  192  
 
                         18 
    Wrightwood 
    The Huxleys had a home in the Mojave desert in a small spot called  Llano. There was nothing but a curve in the road and a sign to  distinguish Llano from any other spot in that vast stretch of pinons  and Joshua trees. Aldous began to suffer from bronchial trouble there  and in the course of their frequent explorations they had discovered a  mountain town between the desert and Los Angeles called Wrightwood.  Aldous was much relieved by the mountain air. But poor Maria detested  the village, found the houses ugly, and the altitude made her slightly 
    ill. She called herself a desert rat and Aldous a mountain squirrel and  never came to like Wrightwood; but with her characteristic concern for  Aldous's well-being, she cheerfully accepted an impractical and badly  made house and all the difficulties involved in living in such a remote  place in wartime.  Late spring 1945 found the world still in the throes of terror and  chaos; the future was far from clear. The first atomic bomb had been  detonated, even though it was afterwards admitted within scientific  circles that there was no absolute certainty the whole atmosphere would  not be ignited by this experiment. Aldous was one of those few who  saw so clearly at that moment the future consequences of such an  experiment. With the details coming to light of the concentration  camps on the one side and the results of fire bombings of much of  Germany on the other, and the plight of refugees all over Europe,  there was some reason to believe that much of the world had run  amok. 
    Using affectionate persistence, the Huxleys prevailed upon us to spend  the rest of that summer in Wrightwood. As usual, it was the three of us,  my mother, Krinsh and I who made this move. My father would drive  up from Hollywood or Ojai for an occasional weekend. Maria, in her  letters to Rosalind had begged that we pretend to like Wrightwood,  even if we didn't, to make Aldous happy. 
    We found them painting their house, Aldous smeared from head to  toe, valiantly wielding a paintbrush. To us, the village was charming 
    193  
 
                   
 
   
    enough, not Alpine or with the overpowering stillness and magnitude  of Sequoia, but we did not share Maria's dislike. 
    Wrightwood is dry, austere, without the attraction of water or the  accompanying noise of water sports. Years later when I had seen the  Himalayas, I felt the affinity here. The silver earth was studded with  pine and fremontia, small clumps of lupin lingered that first summer  and the Indian paint brush in occasional bursts of deep orange nestled  by mica-flecked rocks. 
    We saw the Huxleys every day ¡Ð either for tea at their house or for  dinner at ours. Rosalind and Maria each tried to help the other in her  own way. Maria included us on many occasions when interesting people  came up to see Aldous. for she understood that Krinsh particularly  seemed to need these encounters. Maria began a hope chest for me,  although [ was just a child. T still have the lovely Belgian linens she  gave me then. Preparing food and running large households, something  of a hardship for Maria, was fairly routine for Rosalind, so she often  provided the meals for the whole crowd. Thus our lives, though  in different houses, were linked by mealtimes and also by walks, a  daily routine for both Aldous and Krinsh, accompanied by whoever  could keep up with Aldous's long stride. which was easily matched  by Krinsh's fast one. These were the occasions of their most serious  talks together, and I would glean particles of profound utterance as I  drifted between them and Maria and Rosalind with their, to me, more  intriguing talk about friends and family. 
    There is one evening that first summer that still stands out in my  memory. Raja had come up from Hollywood and after dinner the  three men remained in the living-room, while Maria, Rosalind and |  retreated to a bedroom to chat about lighter matters than we suspected  the men would indulge in. Through the thin wall we could hear and  distinguish their voices. each with his unique, clear British accent and  beautiful pitch. Like a string trio, themes picked up in turn, never  interrupting each other, they played out a conversation that rose and  fell in sonorous tones in a minor scale, gradually winding down to  a dead silence that lasted many minutes. Overcome by curiosity we  crept into the room to see what had befallen them. Three pairs of eves  were bent on the floor, faces sombre, each lost in a private gloom into  which they had so harmoniously talked themselves. It was the middle  of August 1945. 
    Finally the war was over, but like Aldous, Krishna and Raja and 
    many others who had insight towards the future, Mr Robbie saw the 
    darker side of victory. 
    194  
 
                         Wrightwood 
    August 16, 1945 
    Dearest Radha, 
    We are of course tremendously pleased that peace has come but 
    there isn't the same thrill as there was when the last war ended for 
    then everyone was full of hope that there would be no more wars 
    and this time we merely rejoice that this war is over and the next 
    one not yet begun. 
    And a month later he wrote to Rosalind, ?(r)The Atomic bomb seems to  put the last nail in the coffin of Christian civilization. If only Genghis  Khan could have had the use of it he could have killed 180,000,000  people in one year instead of only 18,000. 
    Before that summer ended Krishna and Rosalind had been shown the  cabin at Wrightwood which Krishna was to name Greenwood Gate.  They stood together under the great three-hundred-year-old oak tree  that is still there and both felt certain this was the right cabin for us. It  had been built of whole logs nearly a hundred years before by the first  forest ranger in that area. In the 1920s a wealthy lady from Beverly Hills  had added, in the same style, bedrooms and bath, hardwood floors and  other comforts, before she lost everything including the cabin in the  Depression. There was a wistaria-covered porch and beautiful stone  patio. A surrounding forest of pines sheltered the cabin from the sun,  which Krinsh so detested. Aldous, on the other hand, always sought  all the light he could find and thought our cabin sombre though  charming. 
    Using a small sum left to Rosalind by Sara Logan, Raja, with  considerablg trouble, arranged the purchase. There had been a flood  the winter before that had washed away several houses but went right  around this one. Its elderly owner had been on her knees all night  praying for survival. A good part of the mountain had come down  in an avalanche of late April snow followed by heavy rains. Raja had  to wait for an act of Congress to allocate funds for the reparation of  the dirt dam between us and the wash, before the property could be  released for purchase. 
    (That was just the beginning of tribulations for us and the cabin.  Following her vision that this cabin would have a long place in our  lives, my mother gave it to my husband and me twenty years later,  urging us never to sell it. To this day we are glad we haven't, although  there were times when we were sorely tempted. There was another  flood just after it became ours, causing us to remove twenty truckloads 
    195  
 
                   
 
    of silt from the house and the garage. The cabin is standing on the tail 
    end of the San Andreas fault, on target for the worst earthquake of the 
    century. But our family has enjoyed it along with its resident carpenter 
    ants and bumble-bees for the past forty years.)  Wrightwood marked the end of our annual treks to Sequoia. Our time  was pleasantly intertwined with the Huxleys. Maria and Rosalind shared  their domestic problems. 
    My dearest Rosalind, 
    I missed you at Wrightwood but I found out much usefulness  for both of us and this is to impart it . . . I found excellent men  to do urgent things; regulate oil stove . . . new locks. In fact  quite important details. And I found that Mr Steele though slow  is wonderfully conscientious, willing and capable. If you need him  for stoves or electric light or gas or anything don't hesitate. I found  that your friend of Australia, Harry may become very useful to all  of us as an odd-job man. He seems honest and certainly cheap. He  talks too much . . . 60?¨¦ an hour. He is sorting apples for you and  leaving them there. They are rotting . . . There is a Mrs Strott who  lives near the apple orchard . . . we heard the bells of her cows, near  the little lake, when we walked. I had her once. I think she may be  very useful and go to you if you insisted that you needed her ¡Ð 75?¨¦  an hour. Tell her I am your friend. I believe she rather enjoyed the  work with different sort of people ¡Ð Oh dear, how hard some people  work. She is happy because she had six ?(r)wonderful boys'. 
    We shall arrive late on Friday morning and pass by your house  hoping to arrange a walk or something else. 
    The days were warm and last night was the only one I spent there  . . . I slept atrociously on what I had thought was a divine bed which  took me all day to prepare for Aldous. So I shall have to think up  something else; the difficulty is it must be seven feet. 
    The departure was dramatic under a darkening sky, the first flakes  of mixed snow and rain and a howling wind. When I reached the  desert a pretty moon seemed ironically to watch my hurrying car; so  slowed down and enjoyed the radiant peace while the clouds crowded  our hills. And so I am home and happy. I go to town tomorrow. It  will be wonderful to meet and I have made some cakes. To send to  Europe as you suggested. Eight pounds for them and the rest for us  when you will please come to tea. One batch turned out like toffee  but your family is sweet about my misfits so I am keeping them for  you! Good night my very dearest. May I say that [ am more fond 
    196  
 
                         Wrightwood 
    of you than ever and that it is a very happy feeling to be so fond of  someone. | hope you are well. Your family has my loves [sic] too.  Make sure they all have warm clothes. The cold has a slow creepy  strength which suddenly has paralysed one and the face is green and  the nose is red and the hands clumsy ¡Ð and yet that is where we  choose to live. 
    When late spring came we moved to Wrightwood for long periods,  taking carloads of produce from the ranch and returning every few  weeks to replenish supplies. 
    In between major reprovisioning in Ojai, we made weekly trips to  the Safeway in San Bernardino. Very occasionally, we could persuade  Krinsh to go to a movie down there with us. He refused to go to  romantic films, but enjoyed Westerns. Whenever there was a kissing  scene he covered his eyes in horror and said, ?(r)What rot!' 
    While this attitude may have been perfectly understandable to his  devotees, it seemed somewhat inconsistent to me and probably even  more so to my mother. 
    I was now fourteen ¡Ð no longer a small, unobtrusive child. While  they never made me feel de trop, 1 sensed they needed to be alone,  especially in the mornings when Krinsh went into my mother's room  where she often would have taken her breakfast tray to bed. This was  a small treat which she particularly enjoyed when away from all the  ranch chores. I was not interested in their conversations any more. 
    I wandered off by myself up the wash through the waves of desert  heat marbled by wafts of fog-cooled breezes. Sometimes a friend from  Ojai came for a visit. But our household seemed strange to most of  them and I felt easier left alone, to sketch, to read among other things  an old edition of War and Peace in four leather-bound volumes that I  brought from Arya Vihara. In that edition the English was interspersed  with long passages of French which I could not get through without  Krinsh's help. Sometimes 1 swam in the local pond or practised the  piano in the local schoolhouse. These were my summer mornings and  [ was perfectly content with them. We always rested after lunch and  then went to the Huxleys for tea, and a walk. Or they came to us for  dinner and an evening around the huge stone fireplace, built so long  ago by the forest ranger. There were no telephones so plans were made  from one day to the next. 
    Greta Garbo came for the day and I trailed along the Blue Ridge  behind her and Krinsh. She was easily as beautiful as her legend. She  was without a trace of make-up, except perhaps on her lashes. The only 
    197  
 
                   
 
    evidence of vanity was an anti-wrinkle plaster between her eyebrows.  Her hair was straight. She wore a straw hat and pants. She asked  ?(r)profound' questions of the ?(r)Indian Sage', questions parried, averted,  unanswered. Deepest blue eyes glanced up under those famous lashes  to test his imperviousness, or was she genuinely ingenuous? Who could  ever say? They were two such private people. I just hoped she didn't  notice the look Krinsh threw me as he often did when I was there to  witness some particular embarrassment, as though I could somehow  cast back a little sympathy. I could feel his question, ?(r)What am I  to do with this?' Yet I also knew of his secret yen for the world of  actors and popular renown. He had a peculiar affinity for it and had  once told me, ?(r)I would like to write just one big Broadway hit, just  to see how it feels,?¡À or sometimes it would be ?(r)Just one best-selling  detective novel.' 
    There was a picnic with the Huxleys and Stravinskys also on the Blue  Ridge at an altitude of 8000 feet. My mother, as usual, had brought  food for everyone and laid it out while the rest of us walked. That  day someone or something persuaded Krinsh to take a sip of wine  and he suddenly fell back off the bench in a dead faint. Everyone  except Rosalind was alarmed. She knew how easily he could faint. In  such company Krinsh always looked a bit aloof and outside the circle,  except with Aldous and Maria with whom he felt perfectly at home.  He showed affection for Aldous, but maintained the usual formality  with Maria that he reserved for all women, seldom using first names,  preferring Madam or Signora. No matter how eminent our guests were,  it was still Krinsh who was always the centre of attention. The more he  appeared to retreat from this position, the more it encompassed him.  There was something in common between him and Greta Garbo in  this. We had witnessed her attempts at incognito when shopping in  Beverly Hills which never failed to draw attention to herself. Everyone  knew exactly who she was. 
    One day we were invited to tea at the Huxleys to meet a psychologist,  his wife and secretary. I was sitting next to the wife and suddenly noticed  a complete change of expression, although she seemed to be attentive to  our conversation. A moment later, her original demeanour returning, she  asked me to repeat what I had just said. Maria explained to me later that  she was a split personality, just like the woman in the true case history  of the film, Three Faces of Eve. But in this case both personalities were  compatible and helpful to each other. I never forgot this extraordinary  intimate glimpse of that unusual woman. 
    Even in Wrightwood there was always a lot of work to do. We did 
    198  
 
                   
Wrightwood 
    almost everything ourselves. Krinsh decided it would be nice to have  a rose garden. Perhaps he missed the one that had been taken out years  before at Arya Vihara for wartime economy. We planted a row of roses  along the wall above the driveway. The soil was basically rocks of  serpentine and mica, grey and infertile and much digging and mulching  had to be done. Eventually the roses did very well. He and Rosalind  also made a small bathroom down in the garage. A local plumber  installed the fixtures but they did the tiling and painting themselves.  This bathroom was for Krinsh, who slept in the living-room and liked  to get up very early. 
    When we returned from an afternoon walk one day there was a large  rattlesnake curled comfortably on the mat by the kitchen door. Krinsh  was not lacking in courage but it was my mother who had the knack  of dealing with difficult creatures. With gentle urging from a broom  and a firm voice she told the snake to remove itself and find another  home. She was surprisingly persuasive and the reptile slowly uncoiled  and moved off into the brush. We didn't see it again. To my knowledge,  my mother never killed or harmed anything. In this she was like Mr  Robbie, who had once remarked to Beato when she was about to swat  a fly, ?(r)Let it live. It values its life as much as you do yours.?¡À Beato never  again killed anything either. 
    My mother also had her own ideas about politics. Even Aldous  could not influence her on issues about which she felt strongly. She  had grown up in a politically oriented household. Her father had  been a state senator with a strong socialist bent and the family had  weathered many campaigns. During the Alger Hiss trial, there were  many heated discussions about his innocence. My mother was certain  he was not_guilty, but thought, in any case, he had not received a  fair trial. Everyone else tried to argue her down, not because they  thought Hiss was guilty but because her certainty seemed to them  irrational. Although Krinsh had always maintained that if a person  were not liberal in his youth he would be mentally ossified in his middle  years, next to my mother he definitely sounded politically conservative,  but when my Aunt Erma was present, who was not only a staunch  Republican, which she saw as the party of Lincoln, but also allowed  herself on occasion to sound pro-American and mildly nationalistic,  Krinsh would remind her, sometimes quite sharply, of the importance  of not thinking in terms of nationalism and ideology. Krinsh was not  a political thinker but lumped both religious and political ideologies in  one trash bin. All leaders were on the wrong path, politicians, teachers,  experts of any kind were to be eschewed. This was helpful for adults 
    199      with overly encumbered minds who were seeking freedom from their  conditioning, but for young students hoping to get educated, it was not  helpful. It took me quite a few years to overcome the feeling that what  I was being told in the lectures at college was anything but nonsense. I  would find myself reflecting the supercilious attitude that I had so often  seen Krinsh put on in the face of intellectual power. While I was never  permitted by any of my adults to make derogatory or even personal  remarks, Krinsh occasionally did so, perhaps unwittingly or somehow  stirred to an inner exasperation. It was seldom this happened, but 1  remembered him saying after a long walk with Aldous, ?(r)His mind is  like a wastebasket.?¡À I am sure Aldous would never have suspected that  Krinsh would make such a comment. 
    I look back now on those years at Wrightwood as the last of our happy  times together with Krinsh. Both my parents had occasional quarrels  with him, but they were of the same nature as they had always been 
    ¡Ð usually because he had lied about something. My mother asked him  once why-he lied and he replied with astonishing frankness, ?(r)Because  of fear.'  In some ways Rosalind's psychology was so simple. She thought  once a fault was recognized and admitted all you had to do was decide  to stop it. She never recognized the complexity of Krinsh's problem  until it was too late. My father, on the other hand, tended to make  everything so complex that he became mired in his own speculations. 
    There was still a great deal of love: between my mother and Krinsh,  from my father to Krinsh and possibly from Krinsh to my father, though  of this I am still uncertain. I never had any doubt of the love I had for  each of the three of them and which they all had for me. 
    200  
 
                         19 
    A School is Born 
    When, in 1927, Mrs Besant had bought the Happy Valley land and  entrusted it to the Happy Valley Foundation, whose members she  had chosen, she told them they had centuries in which to work.  By extending her vision over such a long range she alleviated the  impatience that might have arisen in her trustees to see instant marvels  arising in Happy Valley. This, however, did not alleviate the problem  of meeting the annual payments on the $90,000 mortgage with which  the property was encumbered. That onerous duty fell largely on the  Logans and Louis Zalk. They issued regular appeals for pledges to  help clear title. Those loyal to Mrs Besant, those who shared in her  vision of the coming sixth sub-root race, answered the call for help  until the Great Depression fell upon the world. Then the Logans and  Louis Zalk were left with a considerable financial problem, for they  also were affected by the crash. For the next twenty-five years there  would be a running correspondence between Robert and Louis about  their joint responsibility. This exchange began in Robert's usual wry  tone in October 1930. 
    Dear Louis, 
    Of course I will help you out as you request but really I do not 
    quite understand what the situation will be, to whom payments will 
    be made and by whom records kept and receipts sent. 
    Enlighten me a little in words of one syllable . . . I remember we 
    had a meeting . . . at which everybody was elected trustee and then 
    immediately resigned and was replaced by everybody else. 
    . . . believe me, with all good wishes, 
    Faithfully, 
    ROBERT 
    This tone of informality should not belie the competence and dedi- cation of these two men in their efforts to bring to fruition Mrs Besant's  vision. Had they not believed so firmly in that, they would have found 
    201  
 
                   
 
    the task too trying. The only source of income on the land was a walnut  grove which sometimes helped to pay the taxes and mortgage and was  managed by a tenant farmer, the original owner of the land. There was  a steady stream of people, mostly Theosophists, who hoped themselves  to be a part of the new sixth sub-root race or at least wanted to be there  ready to welcome it. Fielding these inquiries was a duty which fell to  Robert. 
    June 22, 1935  Dear Louis,  I quite agree with your letter about not considering any colonizing 
    plans until we can hold a real meeting of the trustees.  As I have had to answer a good many criticisms and enquiries  lately . . . I inclose copies . . . of some of my answers for your  comments. 
    Dear Kahuna, 
    As for starting colonization, there is certainly no ?(r)no Theosophist  need apply' attitude on the part of the trustees; there is only . . . a  desire to be very sure of not making some wrong venture when the  land is still under a substantial mortgage. A failure now would make  it almost impossible ever to get the mortgage paid off or reduced to  safe proportions . . . meanwhile it could do no harm to submit to  Louis Zalk some practical plans and suggestions toward first steps  in colonization. 
    Dear Mrs S 
    You are quite at liberty to change your pledge or cancel it altogether  .. . As for the colonization of Happy Valley, the trustees have no  other thought in mind and would certainly not have made all the  efforts they have had to make for seven years to reduce the heavy  mortgage from $90,000 to 843,000 if they had not been dedicated to  the ultimate accomplishment of Dr Besant's intentions. 
    T.S. members are sometimes too ready to criticize each other's  efforts without a clear understanding of the facts and I hope when  vou hear further criticism of the Happy Valley Foundation . . . you  will ask the critics to send in some helpful suggestions instead.  By 1941, the Happy Valley situation was basically unchanged except  that the mortgage was being reduced and the land therefore still intact.  There were still as many ideas as to what the land should be used for 
    202  
 
                         A School is Born 
    and who should do the using as there were people, both within the  foundation and on the outskirts ~ to say nothing of the ?(r)fringe'. 
    There was also a claim (later proved to be unfounded) by a Theo- sophical member against Happy Valley for a school in lieu ofa former  loan, about which Robert commented: 
    September 12, 1943  Dear Louis, 
    If Miss S. should depart for Shamballa [the home of the king of  the occult hierarchy believed to be located in the Gobi desert] before  the time comes either to found a school or repay the money, there  would probably be no controversy at all; . . . it all seems to rest on  Dr Besant's two letters and the minutes of the Happy Valley. 
    ... To my mind it is not so much a question whether or not we  are trustees of the $12,400 for the purposes of a school as whether  we can avoid having Miss S. at Happy Valley in any capacity. I am  not very clear as to what a Sixth Sub-race person should be but I  feel very sure he must be of quite a different type from Miss S. Or  any other rigid educationalist. 
    Faithfully,  ROBERT 
    P.S. We might turn it all over to Miss S. and merely amend our  charter to read THE UNHAPPY VALLEY FOUNDATION.  Whether answering the proposals of over-zealous Theosophists or  members of the ?(r)fringe', Robert politely but firmly maintained the  trustees' intention to steer clear of all the rigid and, in some eyes,  nonsensical aspects of Theosophy such as initiations and the consequent  hierarchical attitudes which he and Sara had never embraced. Mrs Besant  herself had not included these aspects in her concept of Happy Valley's  future. 
    Robert and Louis were both among Krishna's closest friends and  contributed heavily to what was now called Krishnamurti Writings  Incorporated or KWinc, instead of the Star Publishing Trust. But  Krishna still maintained an aloof distance from Happy Valley. He had  divorced himself from this enterprise before Mrs Besant even had it off  the ground. He was finished with Masters, the sixth sub-root race and  with Theosophy in general, at least at that time. 
    As soon as the war was over, my mother wanted to start a large  community vegetable garden in the lower valley, mostly to provide 
    203  
 
                   
 
      work for the Japanese who had been interned during the war. It was  a token drop of help in the face of such disgraceful and unnecessary  injustice as they had suffered but she felt strongly about it. Raja,  who thought it was not a feasible undertaking, dissuaded her from  the garden; but he did arrange to hire a Japanese couple, who came to  live in the smaller of Robert's cottages behind Saro Vihara. Ishi worked  in the orchard and garden and Mrs Ishi helped in the household. If they  had bitter feelings they kept them to themselves and showed us always  a courteous and cheerful demeanour. 
    In 1945, Robert and Louis went into another partnership which would  provide the seed bed for the first enterprise of Happy Valley. They  bought the old Star Camp bath-houses and cafeteria building and the  acreage around them from KWInc and were planning to remodel the  bath-houses into apartments. There were murmurings of the possibility  of a school, murmurings which Robert had intuitively foreseen some  years before. Although nothing definite was being decided along these  lines, it was in the back of both their minds that if there should be a  sudden need, the apartments would be available until more permanent  structures could be built on the Happy Valley land fifteen miles away. 
    December 17th, 1945 
    Dear Louis, 
    I have your letter of December 11th and note instructions to 
    Willie about bath-houses 3 and 2 . . . If anyone swims out of these 
    bath-houses with a clear mathematical picture of my two-thirds and 
    one-half and your one-half and one-third, it will be Albert Einstein. 
    No one else would have a chance! 
    Faithfully, 
    ROBERT 
    The nucleus that would start the school was forming. A retired  philosophy professor from Vassar, Dr Guido Ferrando, had moved  to Ojai Valley during the war and had given several series of lectures  on the American transcendentalists and on the Divine Comedy. He had  also entered into many discussions on education with Krishna, Rosalind  and Aldous Huxley. His ideas for a Socratic method of teaching fitted  in with many of Krishna's ideas but were more specific and applicable:  term papers rather than formal examinations, small classes arranged in  a circle with a flow of questions and answers between the pupils and  the teacher. Pupils would learn from asking questions and discussing  rather than being lectured to. The emphasis would be on learning to 
    204  
 
                         A School is Born 
    think and there would be no barriers between different disciplines but  an integration of subjects as well as cultures into a world view. 
    Rosalind had been for some years a member of the Ojai Valley School  Board which had originally been based on Edward Yeomans's precepts  of non-competitiveness, in classroom and sports, tolerance and a free  and open mind; similar educational principles to those which Krishna  later formulated. 
    There was a need in the valley for a co-educational high school,  especially at that moment. The ninth grade class, which included me,  was about to graduate from the Ojai Valley School. I well remember  the concern we all had as to where we would go next. Most of us,  having spent four or five years in a very progressive school, were not  enthusiastic to finish our high school days at the public school. All the  other schools in Ojai were for boys only. A ready-made tenth grade  to start with seemed an opportune moment to lay the first cornerstone  ofa long-hoped-for reality. Rosalind had been invited on to the Happy  Valley Foundation a few years before, largely due to Robert's faith,  which he had inherited from Sara and was joimned in by Louis, that  she would accomplish something important if given the chance. At  that time, Rosalind was unaware of this confidence in her, but was  to be sustained by it in the ensuing years. 
    It was Mr Robbie and Louis Zalk who made the school possible  financially. They leased for a dollar a year the old cafeteria building, to  be used for the school house. This was the beginning of their long role  as chief benefactors of the school, just as they had been of the Happy  Valley Foundation. 
    Rosalind was rapidly caught up in the practicalities of starting even a  small schools Providing equipment, housing, classrooms, kitchens and  budgets fell to her, in addition to discussing the ideology of the school  with Aldous, Raja, Krishna, Dr Ferrando and many others who had  hoped for years to be part of such an undertaking. Robert and Louis  remained largely in the background of these discussions but as trustees 
    -their undiminishing correspondence revealed their deep concern. They  both believed the school should reflect Mrs Besant's educational ideals,  based on the brotherhood of man and that all the future trustees should  be chosen with this principle in mind. In the midst of the war Robert  had emphasized these views.  The Happy Valley must be a nursery for that true peace which can  only come through understanding and good will, through sympathy  and not through domination . . . [it] is the opposite of the conception 
    205      of mechanization and regimentation, which has been dominating the 
    world of business and politics, and creating not only the war, but 
    the war of daily life. 
    In these words Mr Robbie was in accord with both Mrs Besant's  ideals and Aldous's as expressed in Case for Constructive Peace. 
    It was agreed between Krishna, Raja and Rosalind that Arya Vihara  could be used that first year as a temporary living quarters for the  boarding students until the bath-house remodelling was completed.  This was only because Krishna was planning to leave for Australia in  the summer of 1946, and to be away for a year, the first time he would  leave America since the war had begun. He had never been confined in  one place for so long and his restlessness was showing. Although he  had had the summer trips to Sequoia and Carmel, he must have missed  the large gatherings for his talks in Ommen and India. He had talked  in Ojai only once during the war, in 1944. 
    That summer of 1946 Krinsh, my mother and I returned to Sarobia  for the first gathering since 1940. This proved to be a fertile hunt- ing ground for prospective students of the Happy Valley School.  Rosalind made the most of the opportunity. It was here that she  urged Catherine Sloss to send her son out to California. In part because  of her interest in Krishna and in part because of the school situation  in Birmingham, Catherine went home sufficiently convinced to per- suade her husband that it was a good idea. Little did they realize that  Jimmy, then only fifteen, was to emigrate more or less permanently  to California. 
    A group of eminent Freudian psychoanalysts had invited Krishna for  a discussion session to Washington, DC after the Sarobia gathering.  Dr Benjamin Weininger had organized these Washington sessions and  had invited us to stay in his Maryland home. These meetings were  a new experience for Krinsh. Here he was not among his old fol- lowers who found every word and every sigh he uttered something  to cherish and remember. Men like Harry Stack Sullivan and Erich  Fromm were quite sure of their ground and their vocabulary, from  both of which Krinsh tried to dislodge them. He tried to insist on  dropping old conditioning, thought, knowledge. While some of them  felt they had come up against a blank wall and needed a new fron- tier, what Krinsh called professionalism in their vocabulary became  a frequent stumbling block. The whole session, whether successful  in terms of closer understanding or not, was arduous for Krinsh. 
    206  
 
                         A School is Born 
    He had relied emotionally for the past fourteen years on Rosalind's  total attention and enveloping care being projected toward him. She  fully understood that he needed the devotion and commitment of those  close to him no matter how detached he liked to sound. While he did  everything to encourage her to take on the school, he realized that he  had lost her undivided focus. During our stay at the Weiningers, with a  strange sense of desperation Krishna came to Rosalind's room at night.  He had not shown such indiscretion for a long time and it made her  very uncomfortable. 
    At Arya Vihara we still had the cow and the chickens, which the Ishis  had cared for in our absence, but for which Rosalind was still basically  responsible. One day the rooster Hercules did not recognize my mother  when she came to feed him and his hens. Her face was blocked by the  large pan she was holding. He rushed at her and jabbed his spur all  the way through her foot. Fortunately, no infection resulted, but the  wound was very painful; it was typical of her to have no hard feelings  towards Hercules. 
    The week the school was to open and all the boarders were to arrive,  Rosalind, unstable still from her foot wound and the long-ago effects  of a ski injury, slipped on the back steps. She broke her ankle, which  had to be set in a cast to the knee. 
    Many of the students had never experienced the joys of farm life,  Jimmy Sloss among them. The day after he arrived, the cow went into  calf-birth, and, as the calf was coming feet first and had to be turned, it  took all the help available. With my mother laid up, Willie, as the head  midwife, feeling that I, a young girl should not be present, called on  Krinsh and Jimmy to help. His mother believed she had sent her son  to Ojai to b¡§| under Krishnamurti's enlightening influence. But Jimmy,  who did not even know that hens could lay eggs without roosters  around, who was not too sure just how milk got from the cow into  the bottle and had never seen anything being born, felt this was quite  a startling though edifying introduction to Ojai. In spite of the novice  midwives, all went well with the calf and Tina provided good milk  throughout the school year. Not long after that our eccentric cat Minnie  decided to have her kittens on Jimmy's bed. 
    Suddenly Krinsh became desperately ill with high fever and kidney 
    pain. As my mother was on crutches and nine pupils were living in Arya 
    Vihara, it was a crisis. Krinsh would allow no one but my mother near 
    him. She moved him from Pine Cottage to the front room in the big 
    house, where she had nursed Nitya before he died. There she undertook 
    207  
 
                      to nurse Krinsh night and day, at the same time somehow managing  to run the household and oversee the organization of the school. 
    As she found crutches impossibly cumbersome while feeding and  sponge-bathing Krinsh, she had to crawl around the room, dragging  her encased leg. Even in a semi-delirious state, Krinsh insisted that there  be no other nurse and made her promise if he became unconscious that  in no event would he be taken to the hospital. He was convinced he  would surely die there. He refused also to have a doctor, but Hugh  Keller, a friend and chiropractor, checked him every day. It was Hugh''s  professional opinion that Krishna's illness was entirely due to his celibate  life which, he thought, had affected the prostate gland. If she had been  capable of such feelings at that moment, this diagnosis might have  caused Rosalind a fleeting moment of amusement. 
    Aldous and Maria, as they had done when Sophia was dying, came  very often and sat quietly in the patio, giving their loving support. They  felt Rosalind was in a very bad position with her promise to Krishna  and would be severely criticized if anything should happen to him. 
    One particularly critical night, while my mother stayed by Krinsh's  side, my father and I paced up and down the driveway under the  brilliantly starred Ojai sky. I shall never forget the love he expressed  for Krinsh, saying our lives would be so strange and empty without  him. He could not have guessed then that it would not be death that  would cause that emptiness for him. That time had not yet come when  they would no longer be close. In spite of difficulties, there had always  been a tie, which even Keiro, by whatever means, had recognized, for  better and for worse. 
    Eventually a urologist was consulted at the Sansum clinic in Santa  Barbara. He diagnosed that Krishna had nephritis. After intensive care  for over six weeks, Krishna slowly began to recover and entered into  six months' convalescence. Of course, all his travel plans for that  year had been cancelled, but there was no way to cancel the use  of Arya Vihara as a dormitory. It was imperative to keep everyone  quiet during the worst of his illness. We all sat in the living-room  in the evenings, doing our homework as quietly as if we were in a  library or monastery. We were allowed to play classical music softly  on the phonograph. That young people from diverse homes could be so  co-operative and, with such good will, show spontaneous consideration  was an unexpected precedent in those first formative months for a school  that was based on precisely such ideals. Some of the pupils had never  heard of Krinsh, some were Theosophists, a few were children of his  followers.  
 
                   
A School is Born 
    As Krinsh got better, the young people in the house did not seem  to bother him. He had grown a beard and would sit about in his  bathrobe and look over our activities with increasing interest. He  came out occasionally to chat especially with Jimmy, for whom he  had a particular affinity. Jimmy already had the clear mind of the  mathematician he would become. Some were too shy to speak to him  and others not shy at all. [ believe his recuperation was enhanced by  this mingling with young people. We all felt his quiet observation of  us and in part returned 1t. He had often said that to help someone with  a problem all you had to do was understand it without judgment, to see  it clearly, and in time this understanding would be transmitted to the  other person. His non-verbal self was at its best in such circumstances.  To have had the opportunity to experience that directly was worth a  hundred of his lectures. 
    Thanks to Louis and Robert the financial end of the school held up in  spite of a ratio of twelve students to eight teachers. There was a great  deal of enthusiasm for the project. It seemed that finally Mrs Besant's  vision was shaping into reality, even though the school had not been  built on Happy Valley land. Although no one realized it then, it would  be another thirty years before the school could move there. 
    The walnut ranch was still the only source of income for Happy  Valley and it just barely paid expenses each year as the correspondence  between Louis and Mr Robbie showed: 
    October 31st, 1946 
    Dear Louis, 
    I have your letter of the 29th in regard to the proposed expenses 
    on the Happy Valley Nut Factory. 
    Our trouble in blowing the nuts oft the trees will be greatly 
    exceeded by our trouble in blowing the other nuts off the land as 
    soon as the Fifth and Sixth Races begin to move in. 
    Financing the school was to become an ever-increasing problem.  Fortunately, Rosalind was adept at finding ways to economize; both  men appreciated that quality in her while they recognized that she  sometimes became overly optimistic in her expectations of people. 
    November 13th, 1946  Dear Louis,  I think you must have heard from Rosalind about employing F  to build the dormitory. Rosalind was at first too enthusiastic and is 
    209      now perhaps a little too disillusioned, but anyway I will be quite  content to have Neutra or any other Neutral architect you may  choose. 
    Rosalind and Krishna weathered the first year of the school, but their  relationship had undergone a change. Nursing him had put an emotional  and physical strain on her. Perhaps they both felt that they had been too  closely confined during the past seven years. The heavy work during  those war years had taken much of Rosalind's vitality. She had begun  to feel Krishna's constant presence and needs taxing. She welcomed  the thought ofa little space and time apart from him. 
    The school rested heavily on her shoulders, although she had no  official title and never took a salary. Dr Ferrando was not able, due  to age, health, and lack of experience to run the organizational end,  although he was a wonderful figure at the helm and in the classroom.  Rosalind also had to oversee the converting of the bath-houses into  dining-room and dormitory space for the second year of the school.  There were now too many students to fit into Arya Vihara. For  Rosalind, the school had become, and was to remain for twenty years,  an eighteen-hour-a-day as Robert was among the first to 
   job, notice. 
    August 1947  Dearest Rozzie, 
    Don't work too hard nor worry too much . . . last year we had 12  pupils and no dormitory and this year we shall have 12 dormitories  and no pupils which makes a perfect average . . . 
    The dormitories were finished in time for the opening of the second 
    year, leaving Louis and Robert with still more mortgages to pay off.  They were indeed the angels behind the scenes. Louis wrote to Robert  in January 1948: 
    Dear Robert, 
    . . I note your fear as to my getting to heaven through the  Happy Valley back door. My idea of heavenly developments on  Happy Valley would be if we raised forty tons of walnuts this year  and got about thirty cents per pound. But so far we are very short  of rain indeed. There was an Indian chief who came to town from  Oregon the other day, and he caused a very minor sprinkle in Los  Angeles. I hope that he is still actively dancing around a spot in the  ground and that Old Man Coyote will hear his invocations. 
    210  
 
                         A School is Born 
    Now for spiritually minded people, it is a shame that the subject  of money intrudes itself at every point. You know that together we  owe $4000 on a mortgage on the second building. [ am intending to  clear up my share sometime this year since I do not like the smell of  mortgages. I venture to say that you feel the same. 
    . may [ suggest in the spirit of the deep friendship between  us, that both of us, in our Wills, protect the future of the School ¡Ð  just in case Karma uses the actor's wooden hook and yanks us away  from the stage before we meet? 
    211  