PART THREE  DENOUEMENT 
    Lost in a Pathless Land  (1947-86)  
 
第三部分 结局
迷失在无路之国 (1947-86)  
 
20  The Shadow Deepens 阴影加深

    In the autumn of 1947 Krishna, fully recovered, left Ojai on his first  trip abroad since before the war. Raja went with him as far as England  and stayed in Europe until the following spring while Krishna went on  to India. Rosalind remained in Ojai, absorbed by the school. 
1947年秋，完全康复的克里希纳离开了奥康，开始了战前以来的第一次出国旅行。拉贾和他一起远赴英国，在欧洲一直待到第二年春天，而奎师那则去了印度。罗莎琳德留在了奥康，被学校吸引住了。

    Krishna was to remain away for a year and a half. He had never lost his  attachment to the country of his birth and in the last seven years he must  have yearned for it. Yet from the moment of his departure from QOjai and  Rosalind, he resumed the correspondence with her that had been a daily  routine in his absences before the war. His letters continually reaffirmed  his love for her and the importance of their relationship; letters which  Rosalind seldom answered, for she did not look on them as a form of  correspondence but as a need in him to communicate his inner thoughts  to someone close. He did not expect her to write and in fact urged her,  as he often did me, not to bother. 
克里希纳要离开一年半。他从来没有失去过对他出生的国家的依恋，在过去的七年里，他一定很渴望它。然而，从他离开科加伊和罗莎琳德的那一刻起，他恢复了与她的通信，这是他在战争前离开时每天例行的通信。他的信不断重申他对她的爱和他们关系的重要性;这些信罗莎琳德很少回信，因为她并不把它们看作是一种通信形式，而是认为这是他向亲近的人倾诉内心想法的一种需要。他并不指望她写信，事实上，他劝她别麻烦了，就像他经常劝我那样。

    Soon after his arrival in Bombay, Krishna met a very beautiful young  woman, Nandini Mehta, who was married to a Bombay businessman, and  her sister Pupul. In May, he went with these two sisters to Ootacamund.  In their presence, for the first time in twenty years, the ?(r)process' recurred.  Except for one time in Ojai when he had wanted no one, Krishna had  always'wan?(r)ted a woman to help him through the ?(r)process'. Nandini  would not be the last. This recurrence was very similar to those of the  past; weeping and calling for his mother, the pain in the head, the strange  voice, widened eyes, different face and a general plea for care of the body.  And as in his Theosophical days, there was evidently no question raised  by those present of a psychological or physical disorder. 
到达孟买后不久，克里希纳遇到了一位非常漂亮的年轻女子，南迪尼・梅塔，她嫁给了一位孟买商人，还有她的妹妹Pupul。5月，他和这两姐妹一起去了Ootacamund。在他们在场的情况下，二十年来第一次，“(r)过程”重现。除了有一次在奥康，当他不想要任何人的时候，克里希纳总是“想要一个女人来帮助他度过这个过程”。南迪尼不会是最后一个。这种复发与过去的情况非常相似;哭泣和呼唤他的母亲，头部的疼痛，奇怪的声音，睁大的眼睛，不同的脸和一般的请求照顾身体。就像他在神智学时代一样，在场的人显然没有提出任何心理或生理障碍的问题。

    In April 1949 Krishna returned to Ojai. It had been the longest separation between him and Rosalind since they had met in 1922. At first it seemed that their relationship would continue as it had for the past seventeen years, surviving his long absences before the war and the close confinement during it. They seemed happy to see each other. 
1949年4月，克里希纳回到奥康。这是他和罗莎琳德自1922年相识以来，分开时间最长的一次。起初，他们的关系似乎会像过去17年那样继续下去，尽管他在战前长期缺席，并在战争期间被严密监禁。他们见到彼此似乎很高兴。

    Involved as she was with the school, he gave her support and advice in her new work. On her side, she managed to get away from Ojai for the spring holidays and go with Krinsh and me to Wrightwood. 
由于她与学校关系密切，他在她的新工作中给予了她支持和建议。在她这边，她设法离开欧康过春假，和我和克林什一起去了赖特伍德。

    I had grown up with the knowledge that my parents had a peculiar  marriage and I had always felt, and on several occasions had even  observed, that the true marriage in our house was between my mother  and Krinsh. This never bothered me in the least, perhaps because I was  too young to judge. And I was brought up to ?(r)judge not'; Aldous used  to say that was one of the most important precepts in the Bible. Anyhow  by that spring I was deeply absorbed in a love of my own. 
我从小就知道我的父母有一段奇特的婚姻，我一直觉得，甚至有几次观察到，在我们家，真正的婚姻是我母亲和克林什之间的婚姻。这一点也没有困扰到我，也许是因为我还太年轻，无法做出判断。我受养，不是为论断人。奥多斯曾说这是圣经中最重要的戒律之一。不管怎样，到那个春天，我已经深深地沉浸在我自己的爱情中了。

    From the moment he had arrived to attend the school in the autumn of  1946, Jimmy Sloss and I had felt a bond which some of our Theosophical  elders described as the meeting of ?(r)old souls' but which we took more  prosaically for falling in love. Neither of us had the background to  be flattered by this reference to old souls. Hopefully if we had, we  would have had the sense to realize that it was our proximity to the  charmed circle, rather than any merits of our own, that drew forth  such conjectures. It would be a source of happiness and reassurance to  us both that we would have in the future such wholehearted approval  from both immediate family and close friends, for we would marry  very young. There would be a few years of separation after Happy  Valley School, however, before we came together for good. Jimmy  went off a year ahead of me to college in the east. In June 1949 I  graduated from the Happy Valley School and was looking forward to  going east to Swarthmore College where I had been accepted, as had  my cousin David. I was still surrounded by loving adults both within  the family and without. Mima Porter gave me a beautiful long satin  dress that my mother and I had fancied in a shop window in Santa  Barbara but felt was not affordable. My mother spent the summer in  Wrightwood with Krinsh and me, making my college wardrobe. 
从1946年秋天吉米・斯洛斯来到这所学校的那一刻起，我和他就感到了一种联系，我们的一些神智学长老把这种联系描述为“老灵魂的相遇”，但我们更平淡地认为这是相爱。我们俩都没有什么背景，听了这个关于老灵魂的说法就觉得得意。希望如果我们有过这样的经历，我们就会有理智地意识到，是我们与这个迷人的圈子的接近，而不是我们自己的任何优点，引起了这样的猜测。如果我们将来能得到直系亲属和亲密朋友的衷心支持，那将是我们俩幸福和安心的源泉，因为我们很早就结婚了。然而，从欢乐谷毕业后，在我们永远地走到一起之前，有几年是分开的。吉米比我早一年去东部上大学了。1949年6月，我从欢乐谷中学毕业，期待着去东部的斯沃斯莫尔学院，我和我的堂兄大卫都被录取了。我仍然被充满爱心的成年人包围着，无论是家庭内部还是外部。米玛・波特送给我一件漂亮的绸缎长裙，这是我和母亲在圣巴巴拉的一家商店橱窗里看中的，但觉得买不起。我妈整个夏天都在赖特伍德陪我和克林什做我的大学行头。

    Most unexpectedly, a few days before my departure, Krinsh handed  me a hundred dollar bill to buy a warm coat in Philadelphia, the first  material gift I had ever had from him. And Iris Tree wrote for me the  following poem: 
最意想不到的是，在我出发的前几天，克林什递给我一张一百美元的钞票，让我在费城买一件暖和的外套，这是他给我的第一份实物礼物。Iris Tree为我写了下面这首诗:

    For Radha 
    Wherever you go 
    Wherever the winds blow 
    May there be singing 
    May there be flight 
    Of clouds alight 
    And wild birds winging 

	为达
	无论你走到哪里
	无论风吹到哪里
	愿有歌声
	会有航班吗?
	云的光芒
	野鸟在飞翔

    Wherever the winds rest  And the birds come to nest  To you the dove - On you through the winds stirring  Through the blind darkness living  The eyes of those you love. 
无论风停在哪里，鸟儿来筑巢，你的鸽子-在你身上，穿过风，在你的身上，在你所爱的人的眼睛里，穿过黑暗，在你的眼睛里。

    While my adolescent self-centredness had largely insulated me from  the realities of that summer, I could not escape noticing a new tension  between my mother and Krinsh. It was not happy tension but one  which led to quarrels quickly suppressed by my presence. It would be  more than twenty years before I knew the cause. 
虽然青春期的自我中心在很大程度上使我远离了那个夏天的现实，但我还是注意到母亲和克林什之间出现了新的紧张关系。这不是一种愉快的紧张，而是一种导致争吵的紧张，这种争吵很快就被我的存在压制住了。直到二十多年后我才知道原因。

    At first Rosalind had found her relationship with Krishna ostensibly  unchanged. He seemed eager to return to the intimacy they had shared  before his illness. But once he called her by Nandini's name; a name  which at that time she did not know. She tried to convince herself1t was  just a vague and befuddled slip of the tongue. But when this happened  again with the same name, she was perturbed. It had not occurred to  Rosalind that disloyalty could enter into this relationship. For the reasons  already mentioned, she did not consider herself unfaithful to Raja, just  as she would not have felt betrayed by any haison that he might have  made. But where Krishna was concerned, at the very least she would  have expected to be informed if he were interested in someone else. As  her suspicion grew she finally questioned him. He denied absolutely  that there was anyone else in his life or could ever be anyone but her.  Rosalind was not as gullible and naive as she had once been, and the  vehemence of his denials made her all the more suspicious. Later she  would ?(r)claim it was the uncertainty more than his suspected disloyalty  that upset her. Over the years she had come to realize that Krishna was  not always a truthful person and as he himself had told her that his lies  stemmed from fear, she tried to reassure him that there would be no  difficult consequences whatsoever if he would just tell her the truth.  She said she could accept if he were in love with someone else and they  could go on being friends, but she could not endure being deceived. 
起初罗莎琳德发现她与克里希纳的关系表面上没有改变。他似乎渴望回到他生病前他们共同拥有的亲密关系。但是有一次他叫她南迪尼的名字;一个她当时还不知道的名字。她试图说服自己，这只是一个含糊不清的口误。但当同样的名字再次出现时，她感到不安。罗莎琳德没有想到这段关系中会有不忠。由于上面提到的原因，她并不认为自己对拉贾不忠，就像她不会因为拉贾的任何举动而感到背叛一样。但就克里希纳而言，如果他对别人感兴趣，她至少会期望被告知。随着怀疑的增加，她终于询问了他。他绝对否认在他的生命中有其他人，或者除了她之外不可能有其他人。罗莎琳德不像以前那么容易受骗，那么天真了，而他矢口否认的态度使她更加怀疑了。后来她会说，让她心烦的是这种不确定性，而不是他的不忠嫌疑。多年来，她逐渐意识到奎师那并不总是一个诚实的人，因为他自己告诉她，他的谎言源于恐惧，她试图让他放心，只要他告诉她真相，就不会有什么困难的后果。她说，如果他爱上了别人，她可以接受，他们可以继续做朋友，但她不能忍受被欺骗。

    Ovwer the years, fear and its origins such as death, ambition, insecurity,  had been important themes in Krishna's talks. It had always struck me  that those problems he talked about with the most profound insight were  those problems he struggled with in himself. Others have thought this  too, but then wondered, as I did not, how he could speak so knowingly  about sex and love. 
多年来，恐惧及其根源，如死亡、野心、不安全感，一直是克里希纳演讲的重要主题。我总是觉得，他用最深刻的见解谈论的那些问题，正是他自己内心挣扎的那些问题。其他人也有这样的想法，但后来就像我一样感到奇怪，他怎么能如此明知故犯地谈论性和爱。

     Krishna's adamant protestations of fidelity to Rosalind were consider- ably undercut when, six months later, after he had returned to Europe,  the following article appeared in Time magazine. 
六个月后，当克里希纳回到欧洲后，《时代》杂志上出现了下面这篇文章时，他对罗莎琳德坚定的忠诚被大大削弱了。

    REVOLT OF A DOORMAT  Among the great fads of the 1920s {was] . . . Jiddu Krishnamurti . . .  a long-haired young Indian seer whom Bernard Shaw once called the  most beautiful human being he had ever seen. The Theosophist Annie  Besant had adopted Krishnamurti, and was freely predicting that he  would be a new messiah. He was more modest. ?(r)I may or may not be  the second Christ ⌒ I don't know,?± he once said. ?(r)I don't want people  to look up to me, to worship me. Most people are dumb anyway.'  Bunkum & Nonsense. Almost as if to prove it, thousands of disciples mostly women ⌒ used to gather to listen to his lectures on ?(r)truth  and love' . . .  Two years ago, close to 50 and still handsome, Krishnamurti  returned to India and relative obscurity . . . Last week he was  in the news again, involved in one of India's rare cases of marital  dissolution. 
在20世纪20年代的伟大时尚中[是]…克里希那穆提……一位年轻的长发印度预言家，萧伯纳曾称她为他所见过的最美丽的人。神智学者安妮・贝赞特(Annie Besant)收养了克里希那穆提，并直率地预言他将是一位新的弥赛亚。他比较谦虚。我可能是也可能不是第二个基督，我不知道。他曾经说过。(r)我不希望人们尊敬我，崇拜我。反正大多数人都很笨。”胡说八道。几乎是为了证明这一点，成千上万的门徒(主要是女性)常常聚集在一起听他关于“真理与爱”的讲座……两年前，将近50岁的克里希那穆提依然英俊，他回到了印度，并相对默默无闻……上周，他再次出现在新闻中，卷入了印度罕见的离婚案之一。

    After nearly ten years of marriage, the wife of 2 Bombay textile  millionaire, Bhagvandas Chunilal [sic] Mehta asked for a legal sepa- ration. She testified that Mehta beat her, locked up her medicines  and used insulting language. Then Mehta took the stand with his  side of the story. His wife had become a disciple of Krishnamurti.  She had heard him call the sacred Hindu wedding verses ?(r)bunkum  and nonsense'. At another lecture Krishnamurti said to the males in  the audience: ?(r)Do you know what your relationship with your wife is?  We all know this relationship -sex, nagging, bullying, dominating,  the superficial responses of marriage . . . If you are dominant and  you make her your doormat, you say: I am happily married.' 
结婚近十年后，孟买纺织业百万富翁巴格万达斯・丘尼拉利・梅塔的妻子要求合法离婚。她作证说梅塔打了她，把她的药锁起来，还说了侮辱性的话。然后梅塔在证人席上陈述了他的说法。他的妻子成了克里希那穆提的弟子。她听到他把神圣的印度教婚礼诗称为“胡说八道”。在另一次演讲中，克里希那穆提对听众中的男性说:你知道你和你妻子的关系是什么吗?我们都知道这种关系――性、唠叨、欺凌、支配、婚姻的肤浅反应……如果你占主导地位，把她当成你的受气筒，你会说:我的婚姻很幸福。”

    As a result of listening to such teaching Mrs Mehta's attitude toward  her husband had changed sharply. ?(r)Before she was always strong, but  good,?± said Mehta. ?(r)Afterwards . . . she became aggressive . . . I had  come to the conclusion that under the guise of teaching, Krishnamurti  was running after my wife.' 
由于听了这样的教导，梅塔太太对丈夫的态度发生了巨大的变化。(r)以前她总是很坚强，但很善良，梅塔说。?(r)之后……她变得咄咄逼人……我得出的结论是，克里希那穆提打着教学的幌子，在追求我的妻子。”

    Resentment & Rupture. Declaring that her eyes had been opened  by Krishnamurti's teachings, Mrs Mehta had told her husband she  would live a celibate life and had moved into the dressing room.  Judge Eric Weston . . . denied Mrs Mehta's petition. He dryly  observed: I do not think there is any room for doubt that the  teachings [of Krishnamurti] suggesting revolt of the wife from her  doormat position must have had their effect upon her mind . . .  This led to her refusal to carry on marital relations with her husband,  which must have caused considerable resentment.'! 
怨恨和破裂。梅塔夫人宣称克里希那穆提的教诲让她大开眼界，她告诉丈夫她要过独身生活，并搬进了更衣室。埃里克・韦斯顿法官……拒绝了梅塔夫人的请愿。他干巴巴地说:我不认为有任何怀疑的余地，克里希那穆提的教导建议妻子从她的门垫位置上反抗，这一定对她的思想产生了影响…这导致她拒绝与丈夫继续婚姻关系，这一定引起了相当大的怨恨。

    Rosalind knew a side of Krishna that was undreamed of by Raja. She  could read between the lines and believe that Mr Mehta might have some  truth on his side. Raja's only concern was to protect Krishna from such  notoriety. He went to considerable pains to persuade Time not to go on  with this story. It was the first unpleasant publicity since the 1920s. It  was quite disconcerting to him that the moment Krishna took off on  his own he had become embroiled in such an unsavoury situation. 
罗莎琳德了解奎师那拉贾做梦也想不到的一面。她能读出言外之意，相信梅塔可能有一些道理。拉贾唯一关心的是保护奎师那不受这样的恶名。他煞费苦心地劝《时代》杂志不要继续讲这个故事。这是自20世纪20年代以来第一次令人不快的公开。奎师那独自离开的那一刻，他就陷入了如此令人不快的境地，这让他非常不安。

    Rosalind noted the obvious inaccuracies in the article while believing  that Nandini was a passive and innocent party. She realized it was quite  possible that Krishna had become infatuated without his affections being  reciprocated ⌒ at least in kind. But she was still convinced he had not  been truthful about his own feelings. 
罗莎琳德注意到文章中明显的不准确之处，同时认为南迪尼是一个被动和无辜的政党。她意识到克里希纳很可能已经被迷住了，而他的感情却没有得到回报，至少没有得到同样的回报。但她仍然相信他没有对自己的感情说实话。

    In spite of the trouble Krishna had landed in during the previous  year Raja again refrained from accompanying him to India in 1950.  Krishna had often been the subject of various rumours, unfounded in  even a grain of reality. Rosalind's suspicions would not have occurred  to Raja. Besides, he had a lot of work to do in Ojai. The three of them  planned to meet in Europe in the spring. 
1950年，尽管克里希纳在前一年遇到了麻烦，拉贾还是没有陪同他去印度。奎师那经常是各种谣言的主题，即使是一点事实也没有根据。拉贾不会想到罗莎琳德的怀疑。而且，他在欧康还有很多事要做。他们三人计划春天在欧洲见面。

    When Rosalind arrived in London, her first trip there since 1936, she  met up with many old friends some of whom, like Kitty Shiva Rao, had  just come from India. She heard innuendoes that had been circulating  about Krishna and his new friends. She was deeply disturbed and was  further convinced that Krishna had refused to be truthful with her; for  his letters, in which he supposedly described to her every detail of his  life, did not correspond with what she heard. According to these reports  he was not always in the place that he claimed to her to be and Nandin1's  name was frequently linked with his. Krishna never mentioned her in  his letters to Rosalind. There was no one with whom Rosalind could  discuss her distress. For many years she had carried that secret part of  her life with ease for it had been relatively happy. Now in her misery  the burden was becoming unbearable. She lost weight and was unable  to shake off a feeling of malaise that had started on the transatlantic  voyage.. 
当罗莎琳德抵达伦敦时，这是她自1936年以来第一次去那里，她遇到了许多老朋友，其中一些人，比如凯蒂・希瓦・拉奥，刚从印度来。她听到了流传的关于奎师那和他的新朋友的影射。她深感不安，并进一步确信奎师那拒绝对她说实话;因为他在信中向她描述了他生活的每一个细节，与她听到的并不相符。根据这些报告，他并不总是在他向她声称的地方，而且Nandin1的名字经常与他的名字联系在一起。克里希纳在给罗莎琳德的信中从未提到过她。没有一个人可以和罗莎琳德谈论她的苦恼。多年来，她轻松地度过了她生活中那个秘密的部分，因为它相对来说是幸福的。现在在她的痛苦中，这个负担变得难以忍受了。她体重减轻了，而且无法摆脱从横渡大西洋航行中就开始的一种不适的感觉。

    Rosalind went on to Paris, where she was to meet Raja arriving from  California and Krishna arriving from India. On his arrival in Paris on  3 April Raja found her staying in a miserable hotel and immediately  moved her to a better one. He was shocked by her appearance and state of mind. When she started to tell him the stories she had heard  in London about Krishna, and her conviction that he was involved,  at least emotionally if not physically, with another woman, Raja was  puzzled by the depths of her distress. He could understand his own  distress at the probability of more notoriety, if Rosalind's suspicions  were correct. In his efforts to protect Krishna he would have put himself  in the position of covering up for him and this sort of hypocrisy was  highly repugnant to him. Then suddenly, in her frustration, the whole  story of her relationship with Krishna burst out. It was a tremendous  shock to Raja, to learn of the duration of the affair and particularly  to hear of the pregnancies and subsequent abortions. Looking back on  that traumatic discussion, Rosalind clearly remembered Raja's shock,  and then her shock at realizing that he had not known what she had  assumed Krishna to have told him in that letter long ago in Ommen, a letter Raja had never seen. 
罗莎琳德接着去了巴黎，在那里她会见了从加利福尼亚来的拉贾和从印度来的克里希纳。4月3日，拉贾到达巴黎时，发现她住在一家简陋的旅馆里，立即把她搬到了一家更好的旅馆。她的外表和精神状态使他大为震惊。当她开始告诉他她在伦敦听到的关于克里希纳的故事，以及她确信他与另一个女人发生了关系，即使不是身体上的关系，至少也是情感上的关系时，拉贾对自己痛苦的深度感到困惑。如果罗莎琳德的怀疑是正确的，他很可能会更加臭名昭著，他可以理解自己的痛苦。在他保护奎师那的努力中，他会把自己置于掩盖奎师那的位置，而这种虚伪对他来说是非常令人反感的。突然，在她的沮丧中，她与奎师那关系的整个故事爆发了。得知这段婚外情持续了很长时间，尤其是听到怀孕和随后的堕胎，拉贾感到非常震惊。回顾那次令人痛苦的讨论，罗莎琳德清楚地记得拉贾的震惊，然后她震惊地意识到，他并不知道她以为克里希纳在很久以前在阿曼写的那封信里告诉了他什么，那封信拉贾从未见过。

    Krishna arrived in Paris the next day. He was staying as usual with  old friends, the Suar¨|s, in their lovely apartment overlooking the Eiffel  Tower. For years Carlo Suar¨|s had been translating Krishna's books into  French. Both he and his wife Nadine were devoted to Krishna and they  were also very fond of Rosalind. It was difficult to keep her distress from  them. She told Krishna that she had to have a long talk with him, that  she had something important to tell him and asked him to meet her for  a walk. They walked for hours along the Seine, he enchanted by the  lovely spring day in Paris; she seeing nothing as she told him what she  had revealed to Raja. 
克里希纳次日抵达巴黎。他像往常一样，住在老朋友苏埃尔家，住在俯瞰埃菲尔铁塔的漂亮公寓里。多年来，卡洛・苏埃尔斯一直在把克里希纳的书翻译成法语。他和他的妻子纳丁都忠于奎师那，他们也非常喜欢罗莎琳德。对他们隐瞒她的痛苦是很困难的。她告诉奎师那，她有重要的事情要告诉他，她必须和他长谈，并请他和她一起散步。他们沿着塞纳河走了好几个小时，他陶醉在巴黎美丽的春日里;她什么也没看见，就把她告诉拉贾的事告诉了他。

    Krishna was at first horrified and then angry, but after a while he  agreed to do as she asked, to talk to Raja about the situation. She felt it  was up to Krishna to make his own peace with Raja. Krishna promised  to do this, but whenever Rosalind asked him if he had yet done so he put  her off with some excuse. It was not the sort of confrontation he would  welcome, any more than he had been able to forewarn Mrs Besant  privately of his defection from Theosophy. Raja, however, assumed  from the way Rosalind had talked about her affair with Krishna, that  it was now over. He felt the most profound sympathy for her and in  no part of his heart held her to blame. He would always see her as a  victim, but Rosalind did not feel victimized. The fact that she had given  Krishna so much of her life and her care did not enter into her thinking.  She harped on one thing only: knowing the truth, and nothing Krishna  said convinced her she was getting it. 
克里希纳起初吓坏了，然后生气了，但过了一会儿，他同意了她的要求，和拉贾谈谈这个情况。她觉得应该由奎师那来与拉贾和平相处。克里希纳答应这样做，但每当罗莎琳德问他是否这样做时，他都会找一些借口推诿她。这种对抗是他不愿意看到的，就像他不能事先私下警告贝赞特夫人他背叛了神智学一样。然而，从罗莎琳德谈论她与克里希纳的关系的方式来看，拉贾认为这段关系已经结束了。他对她深表同情，丝毫没有责怪她的意思。他总是把她看作受害者，但罗莎琳德并不觉得自己是受害者。她为奎师那付出了如此多的生命和照顾，这一事实并没有进入她的思想。她只反复强调一件事:知道真相，克里希纳说什么也不能让她相信她得到了真相。

    Rosalind returned to America on 19 April and visited me at Swarthmore on her way back to Ojai. I knew then that she was very unwell but was given no hint as to the cause and assumed it  was from purely physical origins. 

罗莎琳德于4月19日回到美国，在回欧康的路上到斯沃斯莫尔看望了我。当时我知道她很不舒服，但没有任何关于病因的暗示，我认为这纯粹是身体上的原因。

    When the spring term finished, [ met my father and Krinsh at Sarobia  to spend a few days with Mr Robbie. It was there that one morning  I overheard a terrible quarrel between them. Fortunately we were on  a floor to ourselves, Krinsh staying in what had once been Sara's  bedroom. My door was open and I heard all they said, the gist of it  being that Raja was once again threatening to walk out for good. After  many sharp exchanges Krishna begged Raja to stay and he agreed to  admit in writing that many times over the years he had lied to Raja and  betrayed him in ways he refused to discuss but that he would never do  so again. My father eventually calmed down, but lines of unhappiness  were etched even deeper in his face. 
春季学期结束后，我去萨罗比亚见了父亲和克林什，和罗比先生呆了几天。就在那里，一天早上我无意中听到他们之间激烈的争吵。幸运的是，我们住在一个单独的楼层，克林什住在曾经是萨拉卧室的地方。我的门开着，我听到了他们说的一切，大意是拉贾又一次威胁要永远离开。经过多次激烈的争吵后，奎师那恳求拉贾留下，他同意以书面形式承认，多年来他曾多次对拉贾撒谎，并以他拒绝讨论的方式背叛他，但他再也不会这样做了。父亲终于平静了下来，但他脸上刻下了更深的不快。

    The three of us went to New York, where a friend had loaned us  her vacant apartment. I kept house during Krinsh's talks at Town  Hall. Willie had come from Ojai to handle the book sales at the  talks. As always, when surrounded by friends and followers, there  was an appearance of harmony. Indeed peace seemed to have been  restored. There were some pleasant times together, dinners with all  the de Manziarly sisters, my father laughing and teasing in his old  way and Krinsh joining in and sometimes remarking as he often used  to that ?(r)Rajagopal is in very good form and full of jokes.?± It would be  many years before I would appreciate the depth of my father's power  of forgiveness. When I asked him years later how he could have gone  on in his relationship with Krinsh, he replied simply, ?°What else could  I do? IfI left him suddenly there would have to be some explanation.  Should I have exposed him and Rosalind and brought all that trouble  on her and on her work in the school? No! I went on with my end  of the work and hoped he would behave after that.?± But of course he  didn't. Things only got worse. 
我们三个人去了纽约，一个朋友把她的空公寓借给了我们。克林什在市政厅讲话时，我负责看家。威利是从欧康来的，负责会谈期间的图书销售。和往常一样，当被朋友和追随者包围时，气氛显得很和谐。的确，和平似乎已经恢复。我们在一起度过了一些愉快的时光，和德・曼齐亚利的姐妹们一起吃饭，父亲像往常一样笑着开玩笑，克林什也加入进来，有时像往常一样说:“拉贾戈帕尔状态很好，充满了笑话。”直到很多年以后，我才体会到父亲博大的宽恕之心。多年以后，当我问他如何能继续和克林什的关系时，他简单地回答说:“我还能做什么?”如果我突然离开他，那就得有个解释。我应该揭发他和罗莎琳德的事，给她和她在学校的工作带来那么多麻烦吗?不!我继续做我那部分的工作，希望他以后能乖一点。但他当然没有。事情变得更糟了。

    Raja became more than ever convinced that there were ?(r)two Krishnas',  the one who could speak with such insight about the human condition,  and the other shadowy Krishna who could deceive and betray a man  upon whom he depended and then beg his forgiveness without any  intention of rectifying matters. Perhaps it was easier for Raja to accept  that there were these two Krishnas. Some day Rosalind would arrive  at a similar conclusion. 
拉贾比以往任何时候都更加确信世上有两个奎师那，一个能够对人类的境况发表如此深刻的见解，另一个神秘的奎师那可以欺骗和背叛一个他所依赖的人，然后乞求他的原谅，却没有任何纠正的意图。也许拉贾更容易接受这两个克里希纳的存在。总有一天罗莎琳德也会得出类似的结论。

    After the New York talks Raja went directly back to Ojai while Krinsh  and I flew to Seattle to meet Rosalind, who had driven up from Ojai with  friends. Krinsh was to give a series of talks there, but first we went for ten  days' rest on the reclusive Orcas Island. In those peaceful surroundings, whatever tensions there were between Krinsh and my mother seemed  to subside. Perhaps by sharing with Raja the burden of her distrust of  Krinsh, Rosalind had found it possible to regain her own equilibrium.  Back in Seattle for the talks, one day she and Krinsh saw a beautiful  little white Ford convertible in a show window and phoned Raja to ask  him to buy it for them, which he did. 

纽约会谈结束后，拉贾直接回到了欧康，而我和克林什则飞到西雅图去见罗莎琳德，她和朋友们从欧康开车过来。克林什要在那里作一系列的演讲，但首先我们要到奥卡斯岛去休息十天。在那些和平的环境中，无论克林什和我母亲之间的紧张关系如何，似乎都消退了。也许通过与拉贾分担她对克林什的不信任，罗莎琳德发现自己有可能重新获得平衡。回到西雅图后，有一天，她和克林什在橱窗里看到一辆漂亮的白色福特敞篷车，就打电话给拉贾，请他帮他们买下来。拉贾照做了。

    Krishna had decided to take a year of retreat in Ojai, ostensibly to  recuperate from general fatigue, but in fact he made a tremendous effort  to heal the rift between himself and Rosalind. On the surface, everything  began to appear much as before. Perhaps Rosalind allowed herself to  half-believe him or at least to push aside her distress, a tendency she  had when things became too difficult. 
克里希纳决定在欧康休整一年，表面上是为了从疲劳中恢复，但实际上他付出了巨大的努力来弥合他和罗莎琳德之间的裂痕。从表面上看，一切又恢复了从前的样子。也许罗莎琳德允许自己半信半疑，或者至少把自己的苦恼抛到一边，这是她在事情变得太困难时的一种倾向。

    Raja meanwhile buried himself even deeper in his work. Aldous had  introduced him to his publisher at Harper & Row. For many years this  would be a fruitful and vital connection for Raja. He had spent the past  few years preparing manuscripts for publication as Aldous had been  encouraging him to do. Krishna showed not the slightest interest in  this project and would not even look at the manuscripts, but he urged  Raja to carry on, saying that was his part of the work and he had  no wish to be involved in it. Perhaps because of his commitment  to this new project, Raja was able to live with the hurt of Krishna's  deception. He also allowed himself to assume that the relationship  between Krishna and Rosalind was over as he understood Krishna to  have implied. Could he really have gone on with his association with  Krishna if he believed otherwise? Years later he told Mima Porter that  he would have understood people falling in love, that was only human,  but he could not understand Krishna leaving him in darkness all those  years, while living a life so contrary to the life which Raja had believed  he wished them all to live. Perhaps it is the loss of free choice in deciding  one's own course of action that is the worst aspect of being deceived. It  seems unrealistic, knowing the fearfulness in Krishna's nature, to have  expected that he could level with Raja. Raja, however, never saw himself  as an intimidating person. He had always tried to do everything Krishna  wanted and in the way he wanted it, talking over the details of their lives  with great thoroughness. That Krishna was actually agreeing to things  he didn't want would have been hard to guess, yet that 1s what he would  later complain of. That winter all three of them made an attempt to  return to some sort of normality, if anything about their lives could  ever be called normal. 

与此同时，拉贾更加埋头于他的工作。奥尔道斯把他介绍给了《哈泼罗》杂志的出版商。多年来，这对拉贾来说将是一个富有成果和重要的联系。在过去的几年里，他一直在为出版准备手稿，正如奥多斯一直鼓励他做的那样。克里希纳对这个项目没有丝毫兴趣，甚至不愿看手稿，但他敦促拉贾继续工作，说这是他的工作，他不想参与其中。也许是因为他对这个新项目的承诺，拉贾能够忍受克里希纳欺骗的伤害。他也允许自己假设克里希纳和罗莎琳德之间的关系已经结束，正如他所理解的克里希纳所暗示的那样。如果他不这么认为，他真的能继续与奎师那交往吗?多年以后，他告诉米玛・波特，他能理解人们坠入爱河，那只是人的天性，但他无法理解奎师那让他在黑暗中生活了这么多年，而他的生活却与拉贾所相信的他希望他们所有人都能过的生活截然相反。也许被欺骗的最糟糕的方面是失去了决定自己行动方向的自由选择。知道奎师那本性中的可怕，期望他能与拉贾扯平似乎是不现实的。然而，拉贾从不认为自己是一个令人生畏的人。他总是尽力按照奎师那的要求去做每一件事，事无巨细地谈论他们生活的细节。克里希纳实际上同意了他不想要的东西，这很难猜测，但这正是他后来抱怨的。那个冬天，他们三个人都试图回归某种正常，如果他们的生活能被称为正常的话。

    Raja wrote to Rosalind, who had again gone east to spend Christmas with me at Sarobia. 
拉贾写信给罗莎琳德，她又去了东部的萨罗比亚和我一起过圣诞节。

    Jan 13, 1951  Dearest Rosalind, 
    Sorry not to have written to you before. There really wasn't much  to say from here. I still strictly mind my own business, and am very  busy with it. 
    The arrangements you made are working out very well. K. is busy  with his gardening. I think he wants to be an expert in growing roses  and all sorts of flowers. He seems very well and quite well fed, at  least, so he says. 
    I hope you are having a really restful and interesting time, and  that you are feeling all right. When you see Mr Robbie, please give  him my dearest love . . . and of course a big kiss to Radhie. 
    All my love, darling,  RAJA 
最亲爱的罗莎琳德:
对不起，以前没有给你写信。在这里真的没什么好说的。我仍然严格关注自己的事情，而且非常忙。
你所做的安排进行得很顺利。k正忙着园艺。我想他想成为种植玫瑰和各种花卉的专家。他看起来很好，吃得很饱，至少他是这么说的。
我希望你有一个真正的休息和有趣的时间，并希望你一切都好。你见到罗比先生时，请代我向他问好…当然还有给拉迪一个深情的吻。
献上我全部的爱，亲爱的，拉贾

    My frequent weekends with Mr Robbie at Sarobia meant the most  to me in those two years in Pennsylvania. He suffered a stroke during  the second year which left him quite immobile, and | would sit with  him in his sunny study downstairs, from which the intimidating Pack  Wack had long since departed, and talk over my term papers. I treasured  those times with him, for his mind was as clear as ever but his paticnce  more mellow. 
在宾夕法尼亚的那两年里，我经常和罗比先生在萨罗比亚度过周末，这对我来说意义重大。第二年，他中风了，动弹不得，我就和他一起坐在楼下那间阳光明媚的书房里，讨论我的学期论文，那个令人生畏的帕克・瓦克早就离开了。我很珍惜和他在一起的时光，因为他的头脑和以前一样清晰，但他的耐心更成熟了。

    After two years there, I had come to teel Swarthmore was not the  right place for me and when the term was over I decided 1 would  transfer to a college in California. 
两年后，我觉得斯沃斯莫尔不适合我，学期结束后，我决定转学到加州的一所大学。

    After driving across America with David and our two aunts, I walked  happily into the living-room at Arya Vihara to find my father and Krinsh  engaged in yet another confrontation. My father was glaring in angry  silence while Krinsh, in evident frustration, was pummelling him on  the chest. After my nine months' absence, they scarcely took time off  to greet me. I drove down to the school in search of my mother and  was warmly greeted by a new member of our household; through Iris  Tree a large silvery mocha poodle called Coco had found a home with  Rosalind. As soon as I walked into the main hall, Coco, about whom  had heard much but had never met, rushed up and licked my face. My  mother, observing her dog's acceptance of her daughter, said she had  never done this with anyone else. Coco would prove to be a new and  much-needed bond in our family. 
在与大卫和两位阿姨开车穿越美国之后，我高兴地走进艾莉亚维哈拉的客厅，发现父亲和克林什又在发生冲突。我父亲愤怒地瞪着眼睛，沉默不语，而克林什显然很沮丧，正在打他的胸口。在我离开九个月后，他们几乎没有抽出时间来问候我。我开车去学校找妈妈，一位新成员热情地迎接了我;通过Iris Tree，一只名叫Coco的银色摩卡贵宾犬在罗莎琳德身边找到了家。我一走进大厅，听说过很多但从未见过面的可可就冲上来舔我的脸。我的母亲看到她的狗接受了她的女儿，说她从来没有对其他人这样做过。可可将成为我们家急需的新纽带。

    When Krishna returned to India in that autumn of 1951, Raja decided  to accompany him. His mother was getting old and he wanted to sce her again. He wanted also to see for himself what was going on around  Krishna in India. He went ahead to Europe by train and boat and was  to meet Krishna, who preferred to fly, in England. 
1951年秋天，克里希纳回到印度，拉贾决定陪伴他。他的母亲老了，他想再见到她。他还想亲眼看看在印度的奎师那周围发生了什么。他乘火车和船前往欧洲，并在英国与喜欢坐飞机的克里希纳会面。

    Whatever Raja's disillusion with Krishna, his affection for Rosalind  had not diminished as his letters to her show. 
不管拉贾对克里希纳的幻想破灭了，他对罗莎琳德的感情并没有减少，正如他写给她的信所显示的那样。

    Chicago Sept 13, 1951 
    Dearest Rosalind and Radha, 
    I telt very sad to leave you both and feel very homesick. 
    Thank you both for a really nice resttul time I had at Wrightwood. 
    You will be back in Ojai tomorrow and I'll be in New York. I am  going further and further away.  All my love to you both, Darlings ⌒  RAJY 

1951年9月13日，芝加哥
最亲爱的罗莎琳德和拉达:
要离开你们俩，我感到很难过，也很想家。
谢谢你们俩让我在赖特伍德度过了一段美好的休息时光。
你明天就回欧康，而我在纽约。我要走得越来越远。把我所有的爱都献给你们，亲爱的RAJY

    And a few days later: 
    Rosalind Dearest, 
    It was so nice talking over the phone with you last Saturday. You  did not sound too well. I do hope, darling, you will be sensible about  yourself& take good care in every way ⌒ 
    I shall write to you often, & don't forget to send for me should  there be any emergency - Is Krishna's knee better ⌒ I hope he will rest properly till he has  to leave. Give him & all my love.  With dearest love to you,  RAJY 
几天后:
罗莎琳德最亲爱的,
很高兴上星期六和你在电话里交谈。你听起来不太舒服。亲爱的，我真心希望你能理智一点，事事小心
我将经常给你写信，如果有任何紧急情况，不要忘记叫我来――克里希纳的膝盖好了吗?我希望他能好好休息，直到他不得不离开。给他我所有的爱。最亲爱的爱你，RAJY

    It took Rosalind a month to answer: 
罗莎琳德花了一个月的时间才回答:

    October 31, 1951  Darling Raja,  The time goes so quickly that I find it hard to write every week  as I see you do. 
    In Hollywood we both went to Dr Lupica and I must say [ like  him very much; he has been very helpful. K did his immigration  business with Willie . . . After we returned to Ojai K got his back  dislocated and we had quite a time with it . . . The Huxleys were  here last weekend and we took him back last Monday to Dr Lupica  and he fixed it and strapped it and it is slowly getting better. | was  quite worried if he would be able to go off as he was quite crippled  from it. Dr Lupica said it is partly due to old age and he would have to watch it. I hope 1t is all right while he 1s with you in London . . .  The school work seems to take all of one's time and energy and  am trying to get things in a condition where it will not always be  like this. 
1951年10月31日亲爱的拉贾:时间过得真快，我发现很难像你那样每周都写信。
在好莱坞，我们都去看了Lupica医生，我必须说我非常喜欢他;他帮了我很多忙。K和威利一起做移民生意…在我们回到欧康之后，K的背部脱臼了，我们度过了一段相当长的时间…赫胥黎夫妇上周末来过这里，上周一我们把他带回到露皮卡医生那里，他修好了它，绑好了它，慢慢地好转了。我很担心他是否能走得动，因为他的腿都瘸了。Lupica博士说，部分原因是年龄大了，他不得不观察它。我希望他在伦敦和你在一起时不会有什么问题。学校的工作似乎占用了一个人所有的时间和精力，我试图让事情在一个条件下，它不会总是这样。

    No matter what their emotional state they both were aware always  of their responsibility for Krishna's well-being, and this continued to  be a primary link in their relationship with each other. There was also  frequent mention of Coco. 
无论他们的情绪状态如何，他们都始终意识到他们对奎师那的幸福负有责任，这一直是他们彼此关系中的主要纽带。也经常提到可可。

    Rosalind's involvement with the school and the people around it  was becoming ever deeper. Lili Kraus, the great Hungarian pianist,  had come the previous spring for the Ojai music festival; Lili became  one of the pivotal points in Rosalind's life, not only because of the deep  affection between them, but also because of Lili's generous sharing of her  enormous talent with the school. She would soon be staying for several  months at Arya Vihara with her husband, Otto Mandl. (Rosalind later  arranged for Lili's favourite 1916 Steinway to be brought to Ojai for  Lili's use on her annual visits.) 
罗莎琳德与学校和周围人的关系越来越密切。前一年春天，伟大的匈牙利钢琴家莉莉・克劳斯来参加奥康音乐节;莉莉之所以成为罗莎琳德人生的转折点之一，不仅是因为她们之间深厚的感情，还因为莉莉慷慨地将她的巨大才能分享给了学校。她很快就会和丈夫奥托・曼德尔在艾莉亚・维哈拉住上几个月。(罗莎琳德后来安排把莉莉最喜欢的1916年施坦威钢琴带到奥康，供莉莉每年来奥康时使用。)

    Aldous and Maria still came regularly and Aldous was now on the  school board. The school took its motto Aun Aprendo, (?(r)I am still  learning') from the graduation address he gave there. The philosopher  Gerald Heard gave several talks, as did Alan Watts, the well-known  writer and lecturer on Buddhism, who later sent his daughter to the  school. A letter from Alan Watts to Blanche Matthias dated 16 March  1951, gives his impression of his first encounter with Ojai. 
奥多斯和玛丽亚仍然定期来，奥多斯现在是学校董事会的成员。这所学校的校训“我仍在学习”(Aun Aprendo)取自他在那里的毕业演讲。哲学家杰拉尔德・希尔德(Gerald Heard)做过几次演讲，著名作家和佛教讲师艾伦・沃茨(Alan Watts)也做过演讲，他后来把女儿送到了这所学校。一封1951年3月16日艾伦・瓦茨写给布兰奇・马蒂亚斯的信，讲述了他与欧康的初次邂逅。

    Dear Blanche, 
    I thought I would . . . thank you for your introduction to Rosalind  Rajagopal. We met again at the end of our stay in L. A. and her husband  guided us up to Ojal. 
    I must say I am enormously impressed with Rajagopal. 1 don't  know when I have met such a thoroughly integrated person, at once  so relaxed and so keen in mind . . . and it was a rare pleasure to enjoy  the company of such an amazingly natural human being ⌒ especially  after meeting, in L.A., so many would-be philosophers, each with  a separate axe to grind. 
    We visited the Happy Valley School, and I had a very interesting  hour's talk with the children. Quite a group! They are wonderfully  alert and free without being offensive, and I like the atmosphere of  the place very much. 
    Most sincerely,  ALAN  
亲爱的布兰奇,
我想我会……感谢您对Rosalind Rajagopal的介绍。在洛杉矶的逗留结束时，我们又见面了，她的丈夫带我们去了奥哈尔。
我必须说我对拉贾戈帕尔印象深刻。我不知道我什么时候见过这样一个完全完整的人，同时如此放松和敏锐的头脑…能和这样一个自然得惊人的人在一起是一种难得的快乐，尤其是在洛杉矶见到这么多想成为哲学家的人之后，他们每个人都别有用心。
我们参观了欢乐谷学校，我和孩子们进行了一个小时的有趣的谈话。好多人啊!他们非常警觉，自由而不冒犯，我非常喜欢这个地方的气氛。
最诚挚的，ALAN

    There was a lengthy list of eminent visitors in all fields who added  an exceptional cultural depth to the school. 
有一长串来自各个领域的杰出访客的名单，他们为学校增添了非凡的文化深度。

    Being physically close again that whole year in Ojai had done much  to heal the breach between Krishna and Rosalind, at least in Krishna's  mind, as his letters to her would show when he left. He told her  that the struggle had brought them inwardly closer, that she must  not let sadness or anything else come between them and that she  was and always would be in his heart ⌒ that they were together in  their love. 
在奥康的那一整年里，身体上的亲密再次愈合了克里希纳和罗莎琳德之间的裂痕，至少在克里希纳的心里是这样，他离开后写给罗莎琳德的信可以证明这一点。他告诉她，这场斗争使他们的内心更亲近了，她不能让悲伤或其他任何事情把他们分开，她在他心里，而且将永远在他心里，他们相爱在一起。

    His letters reveal the physical wrench he felt at leaving her and are  a series of impassioned pleas to maintain their relationship at all costs.  Yet his words reflect, along with his love, a physical and psychic  dependency on her. He feels her sitting next to him on the plane  and sharing with him the drifting clouds and the blue sky. He says  they have been through too much to let anything happen to this  inward closeness. He also admonishes her to take regular walks as  much for Coco's sake as for hers and to brush and feed the dog  properly. 
他的信透露了他离开她时的痛苦，以及一系列充满激情的请求，希望不惜一切代价维持他们的关系。然而，他的话语反映出，除了他的爱，他对她的身体和精神上的依赖。他觉得她坐在飞机上，和他一起看白云和蓝天。他说，他们经历了太多，不会让任何事情破坏这种内在的亲密关系。他还告诫她要定期散步，这既是为了可可，也是为了她自己，还要正确地给狗刷牙和喂食。

    When Krishna met Raja in London he reported back to Rosalind,  writing of Raja's cheerful spirits, ?(r)There's a briskness about him which  is nice.?± He also assured her that of all the dogs he encountered in the  park Coco was the aristocrat. And finally he promised that everything  would be all right and he would not be influenced then or later. He  wrote her a few paragraphs every day and mailed the letter after a  week or so, a pattern he would maintain in his absences for the next  fifteen years, though the absences would become more frequent and  longer. 
当克里希纳在伦敦遇到拉贾时，他向罗莎琳德汇报了拉贾愉快的心情，“(r)他身上有一种很好的活泼。”他还向她保证，在他在公园里遇到的所有狗中，可可是最高贵的。最后，他保证一切都会好起来的，无论当时还是以后，他都不会受到影响。他每天都给她写几段话，大约一个星期后就把信寄出去。在接下来的15年里，他每次不在家都保持着这种模式，不过他不在家的次数越来越多，时间也越来越长。

    Rosalind had asked Raja to trv to meet Lili Kraus and her husband  in Paris. Lili sent Rosalind her fresh and entirely innocent description  of this first meeting. 
罗莎琳德让拉贾设法去巴黎见莉莉・克劳斯和她的丈夫。莉莉向罗莎琳德讲述了她对第一次见面的全新的、完全无辜的描述。

    Darling Rosalind, 
    You must have served our Lord in many lives in many ways to His great joy and satisfaction to have been granted the incomparable privilege to share your life with two such creatures as Krishnamurti  and Rajagopal, a Saint and an Angel, a fighting angel at that. 
亲爱的罗莎琳德,
你一定在许多世中以许多方式侍奉我们的主，使他无比喜悦和满足，被授予无与伦比的特权，与克里希那穆提和拉贾戈帕尔这样的两个生物分享你的生命，一个是圣人，一个是天使，一个是战斗的天使。

    Never will I forget this sign of true friendship and love which  enabled us to see ?(r)him' what must I call him, this pure light, this  heavenly serenity, this sweet child with the grace of a fairy prince,  the politeness of a knight; the wisdom of another, the only real world; this diamond, flower, bird, butterfly ⌒ all in one; promise and fulfillment, all in one; this living miracle which goes among us  by the name of Krishnamurti? Do, darling Rosalind, tell Rajagopal,  when you write to him, our deepest thanks; do also tell him that  we found him so sweet in his fierceness! You see, by rights we had  no business to see K at all, as we had no permission of the police.  The airfield at Orly for transit flights is . . . a border only and  the passengers are not allowed to overstep it . . . Mme Suar¨|s had  permission and was therefore entitled to have tea with them in that  restaurant. But we couldn't get in there. So Rajagopal brought K in  to a ?(r)no man's land', which the police allowed us to enter too and  that's how we met. I am sure it wasn't at all easy for darling Raja to  arrange all that ⌒ and he was so sweet and angry because they made  such a fuss for really nothing. We saw them for about 15 minutes; an  unforgettable, incomprehensible eternity of keenest, rarest happiness,  indeed, there could not possibly have been a more auspicious, more  promising omen for our Ojai stay, for our association, than this  meeting. K spoke so warmly, tenderly about you and about our  future in our joint work at the school, as if he would have read my  own thoughts! 
我永远不会忘记这个真正的友谊和爱的标志，它使我们看到了他――我该怎么称呼他呢，这个纯洁的光芒，这个天堂般的宁静，这个有着仙女般的王子的优雅，骑士般的礼貌的可爱的孩子;智慧的另一个，是唯一真实的世界;这颗钻石，花，鸟，蝴蝶集于一身;承诺与实现，合而为一;这个以克里希那穆提之名存在于我们中间的活的奇迹?亲爱的罗莎琳德，当你写信给拉贾戈帕尔时，一定要告诉他我们最深切的感谢;也请告诉他，我们发现他在凶猛中如此可爱!你看，按照法律，我们根本没有权利去看K，因为我们没有得到警察的许可。奥利机场过境航班的机场是…只有一个边界，乘客不允许越界…苏氏夫人得到了许可，因此有权和他们一起在那家餐馆喝茶。但我们进不去。于是Rajagopal把K带到了一个“无人区”，警察也允许我们进入，我们就是这样认识的。我敢肯定，亲爱的拉贾安排这一切并不容易，他既高兴又生气，因为他们毫无理由地大惊小怪。我们看了他们大约15分钟;的确，对于我们在奥康的逗留，对于我们的交往来说，再没有比这次见面更吉利、更有希望的预兆了。K在学校的共同工作中，热情、温柔地谈论着你和我们的未来，好像他能读懂我自己的想法!

    Darling Rosalind, thank you for your . . . settlement of the matter.  A rock rolled off our chests . . . You will be as happy when you hear  the piano as you can't possibly imagine! . . . 
亲爱的罗莎琳德，谢谢你的…事情的解决。一块石头从我们的胸口滚了下来…当你听到钢琴声时，你会像你想象的那样高兴!……

    Love and all good wishes.  Ever,  LILI 
爱你的，并致以良好的祝愿。,丽丽

    While Krishna kept up his repeated reassurances to Rosalind from India,  we can infer?(r) from Raja's first letter, he had his own troubles. 
虽然奎师那从印度不断向罗莎琳德保证，但我们可以从拉贾的第一封信中推断，他有自己的麻烦。

    Madras December 11, 1951  You must have had all the news from the usual Source about the  flight from London and what has been happening here since we  arrived on the 24th of November. Krishna had a slight fever but he  is all right now. I also had something or the other for a couple of  days . . . I saw Raja [Jinarajadasa] once or twice. He is quite cordial,  though seemed quite surprised that the Happy Valley Foundation is  still continuing and doing excellent work. He asked me a hundred  questions in a rather supercilious manner. I also saw Rukmini and her  Schools . . . I have seen my mother and family too. She has grown  very, very old, can't hear or see very well. Except generally in many  ways conditions here are worse than I imagined and I certainly feel quite ?(r)lost'. T hope you are well and are taking good care of yourself and not forgetting the promise to write or cable me should anything turn out to be serious with you. 
    All my love, 
    RAJA 
马德拉斯1951年12月11日你一定从通常的来源得到了所有关于从伦敦起飞的航班的消息，以及自从我们11月24日到达这里以来发生的事情。克里希纳有点发烧，但他现在没事了。我也有这样或那样的几天…我见过拉贾(Jinarajadasa)一两次。他很热情，但也很惊讶欢乐谷基金会还在继续，而且做得很好。他以相当傲慢的态度问了我一百多个问题。我也看到了Rukmini和她的学校…我也看到了我的母亲和家人。她已经非常非常老了，既听不见也看不见了。不过总的来说，这里的情况比我想象的还要糟糕，我确实感到很失落。”我希望你身体很好，照顾好自己，不要忘记你答应过的，如果你有什么要紧的事，就给我写信或打电报。
我所有的爱，
拉贾

    Ever since Krishna's defection from the Theosophical Society there  had been an estrangement between him and Jinarajadasa. While the two  Rajas had maintained their early affection, the politics involved caused  some strain. 
自从奎师那从神智学会叛逃后，他和吉那拉贾达萨之间就有了隔阂。虽然两位拉贾保持着他们早期的感情，但涉及的政治问题造成了一些紧张。

    Krishna meanwhile kept on with his daily letters to Rosalind, evi- dently confident that she was pacified and accepting his reassurances. He  said, ?(r)a molehill was made into a mountain and now even the molehill has  gone. Be assured everything is all right.?± He also commented on Raja's  talk with Jinarajadasa but left himself out of it. He said Jinarajadasa  was overly upset about things that happened twenty-five years ago and  should be more ready to forgive. 
与此同时，克里希纳继续每天给罗莎琳德写信，显然确信她已经平静下来，并接受了他的安慰。他说:“一个鼹鼠丘变成了一座山，现在连鼹鼠丘都不见了。”请放心，一切都很好。±他还评论了拉贾与吉纳拉贾达萨的谈话，但把自己撇在一边。他说，吉那拉贾达萨对25年前发生的事情过于不安，应该准备好原谅。

    In the early 1930s, under the Star Publishing Trust, a substantial  house on six acres had been built for Krishna to stay in and to house the  work which continued even in his absence. The place was called Vasanta  Vihar and was across the river from the Theosophical Compound at  Adyar. Krishna would walk along the river in the evenings, on rare  occasions accompanied for a short distance by Raja. Continuing alone  beyond the Elphinstone Bridge toward the sea, Krishna avoided, with  great deliberation, setting foot in Adyar. He had sworn he would not  return there after Mrs Besant died. He made a continual issue of being  unwelcome and locked out from the apartments she had said were to  be his for life. 
在20世纪30年代早期，在明星出版信托下，为克里希纳建造了一座占地6英亩的大房子，供他居住，并存放他不在时仍在继续的作品。这个地方叫做瓦桑塔・维哈尔，与阿达尔的神智学院隔河相望。克里希纳会在晚上沿着河边散步，偶尔由拉贾陪同一小段距离。克里希纳继续独自越过埃尔芬斯通桥向大海走去，经过深思熟虑，避免踏上阿迪亚。他曾发过誓，贝赞特夫人死后，他再也不回那里了。他不断地制造不受欢迎的问题，被拒之门外，她曾说过他要一辈子住在公寓里。

    Raja did not share these sentiments and often went across to Adyar  for a pleasant evening with his friends or a musical performance.  Sitting home alone at Vasanta Vihar, Krishna faithfully reported all  this to Rosalind, adding cryptic comments about the lust for power in  the name of the Master, building schools and organizations, obvious  references to the Theosophical activities at Adyar. 
拉贾却不这么想，他经常去阿迪亚尔和朋友们度过一个愉快的夜晚，或者去听音乐表演。克里希纳独自坐在瓦桑塔・维哈的家中，忠实地向罗莎琳德报告了这一切，并添加了关于以大师的名义对权力的欲望，建立学校和组织的隐晦评论，显然是指在阿迪亚的通神学活动。

    Just before Christmas Raja had a letter from Rosalind telling him  that an examination had determined she needed major surgery. She  intended to go ahead without him or Krishna there. She wanted only  to have Erma and me with her. Raja and Krishna both reacted with  worry and solicitude about her health: 
就在圣诞节前，拉贾收到罗莎琳德的一封信，告诉他检查确定她需要做大手术。她打算在没有他或奎师那在场的情况下继续前进。她只想让厄玛和我在她身边。拉贾和克里希纳都对她的健康感到担忧和担忧:

    Darling Rosalind,  By the time this letter reaches you, you'll have been through it all -and I shall be thinking of you, loving you, and praying for your  quick recovery & safe return home. So very sorry that this had to be  when [ am so far away ⌒ but everyone there near you, loves you &  would have done everything to make it all bearable and easy ⌒ Please  do not plunge back into school activities and worries.  All our love, Darling,  RAJA 
亲爱的罗莎琳德:当你收到这封信的时候，你已经经历了这一切――我会想念你，爱你，祈祷你早日康复，平安回家。很抱歉，我离你这么远，但是你身边的每个人都爱你，并会尽一切努力让这一切变得可以忍受和容易，请不要再投入到学校的活动和担忧中。我们所有的爱，亲爱的，拉贾

    Krishna's letters indicated that he had been given no advance warning  by Raja about the operation. Once he found out, he told Rosalind he had  sat all day and thought of her, loved her and, with Raja, prayed for her.  If all this were true one can visualize a rather touching scene of the two  men together on one side of the globe, drawn close in their common  concern for the woman they both loved on the opposite side. 
克里希纳的信件表明，拉贾没有事先警告他这次行动。他一发现，就告诉罗莎琳德，他坐了一整天，想着她，爱她，还和拉贾一起为她祈祷。如果这一切都是真的，我们可以想象出一个相当感人的场景:这两个男人在地球的一边，因为共同关心他们在地球另一边所爱的女人而走得很近。

    In this same letter, Krishna allowed himself to be distracted from his  concern for Rosalind by his annoyance with her over an accusation she  had made. He objected to her use of the word, infatuated. regarding his  feeling for Nandini. Yet in an oblique way he admitted his attraction  by arguing that the word ?(r)infatuated' was still too strong. He claimed  it was only a flutter, if even that. But Rosalind would continue to have  unwitting indications from friends that he was lying to her sull. 
在这封信中，克里希纳因为罗莎琳德的一项指控而对她感到恼火，从而分散了对她的关心。他反对她用“迷恋”这个词。关于他对南迪尼的感情然而，他还是隐晦地承认了自己的吸引力，认为“迷恋”这个词还是太过强烈。他声称这只是一个小插曲，即便如此。但罗莎琳德会继续从朋友那里不知不觉地得知他在对她的灵魂撒谎。

    Krishna portrayed to Rosalind an amiable and close relationship  between him and Raja; praising his work, his advice and showing con- cern for his occasional illnesses. He also expressed his irritation when  he felt Raja did something foolish like taking a hot bath and then sitting  under a fan. Of course, Krishna related, he got another cold. This cold  led to feverand several days in bed requiring Krishna's nursing. 
克里希纳向罗莎琳德描绘了他和拉贾之间和蔼可亲的亲密关系;赞扬他的工作，他的建议，并对他偶尔生病表示关心。当他觉得拉贾做了一些愚蠢的事情，比如洗个热水澡，然后坐在风扇下面时，他也表达了自己的愤怒。当然，奎师那说，他又感冒了。这次感冒导致发烧，在床上躺了好几天，需要奎师那的护理。

    In spite of Krishna's concern for Raja's health, as usual Raja cured  himself in his own way and not at all as Krishna would approve. Each  of them considered the other a bit foolhardy in their care of themselves.  And in their separation from Rosalind, both their bouts of illness became  more frequent. 
尽管奎师那关心拉贾的健康，但拉贾一如既往地用自己的方式治愈了自己，而不是奎师那所认可的。他们两人都认为对方在照顾自己方面有点鲁莽。在与罗莎琳德分离后，他们的疾病发作变得更加频繁。

    Rosalind Darling, 
    I have not been able to write to vou during the past 3 weeks, as I have been in bed with constant fever, not high, and a racking dryv cough -& headache ⌒ K must have written whatever news there has been. I have been thinking of you constantly and . . . T am suill anxious.  
    What about Lili Kraus ⌒ If you really think it wise & would like to have her & her husband stay at A.V. with you, & thereby make things easy for you in connection with your work, 1 won't be in your way ⌒ I know you will do whatever you think best & wise, especially knowing anything I have said or not said has been because  I have only thought ahead, of you & your welfare, about which you     have not yourself thought or considered, sufficiently or at all. 
    Dearest, take good care of yourself, you are a very precious person,  and you must get well for everybody's sake & especially for Radha's & mine - 
   All my love to you, 
    RAJA 
罗莎琳德亲爱的,
在过去的三个星期里，我一直没能给你写信，因为我一直在床上发烧，不高，还有干咳和头痛。我一定把有什么消息都写下来了。我一直在想你，而且…我还是很焦虑。
丽丽克劳斯⌒呢如果你真的认为它明智的和想要她和她的丈夫待在A.V., &从而使事情容易为你与你的工作,不会在你⌒我知道你会做任何你认为最好的和明智的,特别是知道我有没有说一直说因为我只觉得,你和你的福利,哪些你没有自己想法或考虑,充分或。
亲爱的，照顾好你自己，你是一个非常宝贵的人，为了大家，尤其是为了罗陀和我，你必须康复
我对你所有的爱，
拉贾

    When Nandini and Pupul came to Madras, Krishna no longer tried  to keep their visits a secret from Rosalind. Instead, along with his  explanation that there was no more ?(r)flutter' at all, he enclosed a perfectly  circumspect note to him from Nandini requesting an interview. He  also stated that he had shown Raja the note and that Raja enjoyed  the company of the sisters and was the one who invited them often  to lunch and for evening outings. Krishna was starting to use Raja as  a blind, on one hand leading Rosalind to believe that it was Raja who  showed an interest in being with the sisters, when in fact Krishna made  arrangements for Raja to go somewhere with Pupul, leaving Nandini  behind. Raja was in an uncomfortable position, aware of what was  happening but unable, without showing indiscretion, to do anything  about it. 
当南迪尼和普普尔来到马德拉斯时，克里希纳不再试图对罗莎琳德隐瞒他们的来访。相反，他在解释根本没有什么“扑动”的同时，附上了南迪尼写给他的一封非常谨慎的信，要求采访他。他还说，他给拉贾看了那张纸条，拉贾很喜欢姐妹们的陪伴，经常邀请她们共进午餐和晚上出去玩。克里希纳开始用拉贾当挡路子，一方面让罗莎琳德相信是拉贾对姐妹们感兴趣，而事实上，克里希纳安排拉贾和普普尔一起去某个地方，把南迪尼留在后面。拉贾的处境很不舒服，他知道发生了什么事，但又无能为力，又不显得轻率。

    The situation became more uncomfortable for Raja in Bombay, where  he and Krishna stayed on their way to London. Here they were the guests  of Ratansi (the rich Indian with whom Nitya had once hoped to go into  business). Krishna continued to lay the blame for any contact with the  sisters on Raja. One day he arranged for Raja's absence from the house  by urging him to take a long and tiresome train journey to the outskirts  of Bombay to visit an old friend. Krishna wanted the field to be clear  for an important interview with Nandini's father-in-law, who wanted  him to persuade her to go back to her husband. Krishna reported this  to Rosalind and admitted that he had insisted Nandini be there too and  had then told her it was her life and not his and up to her to make up her  own mind. He closed the letter to Rosalind with the usual reassurances  of his love. 
在孟买，拉贾和克里希纳在去伦敦的路上住在那里，情况变得更加不舒服。在这里，他们是拉坦西的客人(拉坦西是一个富有的印度人，妮提亚曾希望和他做生意)。克里希纳继续把与姐妹们的任何接触归咎于拉贾。有一天，他安排拉贾不在家，让他坐长途火车到孟买郊区去拜访一位老朋友。克里希纳想为南迪尼的公公进行一次重要的采访扫清障碍，后者想让克里希纳说服南迪尼回到她丈夫身边。克里希纳向罗莎琳德报告了这一点，并承认他坚持让南迪尼也在那里，然后告诉她这是她的生活，不是他的，由她自己决定。他在给罗莎琳德的信的结尾一如既往地保证了他的爱。

    Raja wrote from London a week later. He was always extremely  careful about putting anything in writing, especially to Rosalind, whom he believed to be rather careless about leaving letters around. But when  he returned to Ojai we would hear how upset he had been by the  situation around Krishna, the way of life in India, so contrary to the  relatively austere and quiet years in Ojai. There had been devotees too  in QOjai, but not often in the house, and certainly not in Krishna's  bedroom, where in India they frequently gathered while he ate and  dressed. 
一周后，拉贾从伦敦写信给我。他对写任何东西都非常小心，尤其是写给罗莎琳德的信，他认为她很粗心，不会到处乱放信。但当他回到欧康时，我们会听到他对奎师那周围的情况有多沮丧，印度的生活方式，与在欧康相对简朴平静的岁月截然相反。在QOjai也有奉献者，但不是经常在房子里，更不是在奎师那的卧室里，在印度，他们经常在奎师那吃饭和穿衣的时候聚集在一起。

    Rosalind Darling, 
    I hope you received the short note [ sent you from Bombay just  before we left. We have been staying quietly at Mrs Bindley's, she is  very kind, the house peaceful, & the food good. K gets just what he  wants & has been quite well. I want to be alone & quiet for a couple  of months & sort myself out, I need to badly after my visit to India 
罗莎琳德亲爱的,
我希望你收到了我们出发前从孟买寄给你的短信。我们一直安静地住在宾德莱太太家，她人很好，屋子很安静，饭菜也很好。K得到了他想要的，而且一直很好。我想一个人安静地呆上几个月，整理一下自己，在我访问印度之后，我非常需要

    ⌒ can't write about all this to you & you will understand I am sure.  About July or so I shall slowly return to Ojai. K had better go to  Wrightwood for May & June, I think he ought to be quiet & alone,  & not get involved in Ojai activities. That's my feeling & you & he  will do whatever you think best ⌒ After July he may want to give a  few talks in Ojai before returning to India in September via Europe,  as he wants and plans to do.  [ hope you are better now tho' I hear you are again overdoing  school etc. Please, please take good care of yourself. At least you  won't have me round your neck in any way. 
我不能把这一切都写给你，我相信你会理解的。大约七月左右，我将慢慢回到欧康。K最好在五月和六月去赖特伍德，我认为他应该安静和独处，不要参与欧康的活动。这是我和你的感觉，他会做任何你认为最好的事情，7月之后，他可能想在欧康做一些演讲，然后在9月经由欧洲返回印度，这是他想要和计划要做的。[希望你现在好点了，虽然我听说你又在学校过度学习等等。]请你，请你好好照顾自己。至少你不会被我套在脖子上了。

    I was delighted to hear various accounts of your announcement of  Radha's engagement ⌒ Hope they are both really happy about it.  All my love, Darling,  RAJA  Please do-not leave my letters about. I feel nervous to write. 
我很高兴听到关于你宣布拉达订婚的各种说法，希望他们俩都为此感到高兴。我所有的爱，亲爱的，拉贾，请不要把我的信到处乱丢。我写起来很紧张。

    That February of 1952, Jimmy and I asked Rosalind to announce our  engagement at the school's Valentine party. My father had written to  me from London: 
1952年2月，吉米和我请罗莎琳德在学校的情人节派对上宣布我们订婚的消息。父亲从伦敦写信给我说:

    Dearest Radha, 
    .. . I shall write to him [Jimmy] soon and tell him how glad  am about him and you. It is good to hear that you feel right about  him and really happy . . . When are your exams? 
亲爱的达,
. .。我将很快给他写信，告诉他我为他和你感到多么高兴。很高兴听到你对他感觉很好，真的很开心…你什么时候考试?

    Don't work too hard, just enough . . . unless you really enjoy  your studies. I only hope that you intend to complete college both  of you & get your degrees ⌒ you need not do brilliantly but it would be wise & good to finish what you have begun. [ hope Jim feels that  way too. Of course | am very happy about you, darling, and I love  you always very dearly . . .  All my love to you, darling  ) DADDY 
不要太辛苦，够用就行了…除非你真的喜欢你的学习。我只希望你们打算完成大学学业并获得学位，你们不需要做得很出色，但完成你们已经开始的事情是明智的。希望吉姆也这么想。当然，我为你感到高兴，亲爱的，我永远深深地爱着你…把我所有的爱都给你，亲爱的)爸爸

    Krinsh also gave his blessings, still addressing me as Kittums. He  said he was really so glad, very glad 2and happy about me and Jimmy  but it wasn't a great surprise for he had thought, all along, it would  be that way. 
克林什也祝福了我，仍然称呼我为小猫。他说他真的很高兴，非常高兴，为我和吉米的事感到高兴，但这并不奇怪，因为他一直都认为事情会是这样的。

    And I believe he really had from the very first. 
我相信他从一开始就这么做了。

    With Raja's approval, Lili Kraus and her husband Otto Mandl had  been spending the past few months at Arya Vihara. Raja understood  how much this meant to Rosalind, even though he worried that as  always she was overdoing it. Krishna would not normally have minded  this arrangement, but he would later feel that Lili and Otto were part of  the obstacle to his returning which Rosalind unexpectedly raised. On  the grounds that her health was still not back to normal and that the  strain of closing the school for summer was very great, she asked that  he wait until June to return to Ojai. This had never happened before  and it evidently did not occur to Krishna that he himself might be the  cause of strain on her and that she wished to get through her school  year without this added burden. He acquiesced in her request but made  mournful allusions to the gloomy weather in London ⌒ that his hands  were so cold he could hardly write, and nostalgic allusions to California  in the spring, hoping she saw the beauty of Ojai and rejoiced. While  Krishna would never have stated any resentment about Lili being in  Arya Vihara, there is an occasional subtle reference to her presence  there and a hope that this was not the cause for Rosalind's fatigue.  Rosalind knew Krishna well enough ⌒ and he knew she did ⌒ to get the  message that he was unhappy at being kept away from Ojai, having to  walk round and round in a dreary little park (although there are larger  parks in London which are very beautiful in April) and go to boring  movies with Raja. He was distinctly out of sorts. 
在拉贾的同意下，莉莉・克劳斯和她的丈夫奥托・曼德尔在过去的几个月里一直住在艾莉亚・维哈拉。拉贾明白这对罗莎琳德意味着什么，尽管他担心她一如既往地做得过火了。克里希纳通常不会介意这样的安排，但他后来会觉得莉莉和奥托是阻碍他回来的障碍之一，罗莎琳德出人意料地提出了这个障碍。由于她的健康还没有恢复正常，而且夏季停课的压力很大，她要求他等到6月再回到奥康。这种情况以前从来没有发生过，克里希纳显然没有想到，他自己可能是她紧张的原因，她希望在没有这种额外负担的情况下度过学年。他默许了她的要求，但却悲伤地提到伦敦阴沉的天气，他的手冷得几乎写不出字来;他还怀旧地提到加州的春天，希望她能看到奥康的美丽，并为此而高兴。虽然克里希纳从来不会对莉莉出现在艾莉亚维哈拉表示任何不满，但偶尔会微妙地提到她的存在，并希望这不是罗莎琳德疲劳的原因。罗莎琳德很了解克里希纳，克里希纳也很了解她，所以她知道克里希纳很不高兴被拒之门外，不得不在一个沉闷的小公园里转圈(尽管伦敦有更大的公园，在4月份非常漂亮)，不得不和拉贾一起去看无聊的电影。他显然心情不好。

    She suddenly changed her mind, relented, and as far as Krishna was  concerned everything was well again. The nearer the time came for  them to meet, the more loving his letters became and India and those  he had left there seemed to recede utterly from his thoughts, at least  those he expressed to Rosalind. 
她突然改变了主意，心软了，对奎师那来说，一切又好起来了。他们见面的时间越临近，他的信就越充满爱意，而英迪亚和他留在那里的人似乎从他的脑海中完全消失了，至少从他对罗莎琳德的思念中消失了。

    Once back in Ojai Krishna appeared to be quite charmed by Lili, as  indeed who would not be, and he even made a point of sitting in the patio when she practised the piano to show how much he enjoyed her playing. 
回到奥贾伊后，克里希纳似乎被莉莉迷住了，事实上，谁也不会。当莉莉练习钢琴时，他甚至特意坐在院子里，以示他是多么喜欢她的演奏。

    In addition to being one of the greatest pianists of our time, Lili was  one of the most extrordinary people we had met. She had an intense  beauty, and a vibrancy of spirit that not only flowed through her playing  but warmed all those in her presence, and this quality never diminished,  not even in her last days of life. 
莉莉不仅是我们这个时代最伟大的钢琴家之一，也是我们所见过的最杰出的人之一。她有一种强烈的美，一种充满活力的精神，不仅流淌在她的演奏中，而且温暖着所有在她面前的人，这种品质从未减弱，即使在她生命的最后日子里也没有减弱。

    When the Japanese took Singapore and subsequently Java, Liii, her  husband and children were on a concert tour in the Dutch East Indies.  They were incarcerated in a prison camp for three years; for the first  year she and her husband were separated from the children. A vindictive  Dutch woman, threatened by severe beating for having had an affair  with a Japanese officer, declared that Lili was a spy, thus she was put  into the subterranean cells of the Kempe Tai, the equivalent force of  the Gestapo. 
当日本占领新加坡和随后的爪哇时，Liii，她的丈夫和孩子们正在荷属东印度群岛进行巡回演唱会。他们在战俘营被关押了三年;第一年，她和丈夫与孩子们分居。一位怀恨心仇的荷兰妇女，因与一名日本军官有染而受到毒打的威胁，宣布莉莉是间谍，于是她被关进了堪比盖世太保的坎佩泰的地下牢房。

    Dr Mandl forced his way seven or eight times to the offices of the  Kempe Tai, maintaining that whatever charges were to be made could  only concern him, since Lili was totally apolitical: an artist and a mother -nothing else.  One of Lili's co-prisoners told her husband that the guards had  threatened to cut off her hands. Fortunately, just in time, the camp  was visited by a high-ranking officer who had once heard her play in  Tokyo. Not only did he avert this unspeakable tragedy, but he saw that  she had a piano and reunited the family, though he did not release them.  They lost almost everything material in the war, but Lili's existence was  not dependent on material things as she would prove. When she left  Ojai after her stay at Arya Vihara, Lili wrote to Rosalind: 
曼德尔医生强行进入肯普泰的办公室七八次，坚持认为无论提出什么指控都只与他有关，因为莉莉完全不关心政治:她是一位艺术家和一位母亲――没有别的。莉莉的一个狱友告诉她丈夫，看守威胁要砍掉她的手。幸运的是，一位曾在东京听过她演奏的高级军官及时来到了营地。他不仅避免了这场无法形容的悲剧，而且他看到她有一架钢琴，并使家人团聚，尽管他没有释放他们。他们在战争中几乎失去了一切物质上的东西，但莉莉的存在并不像她所证明的那样依赖于物质。在离开欧康后，莉莉给罗莎琳德写信说:

    You remember after having met Krishnaji and Rajagopal in Paris, I  wrote to you saying, how well you must have served the Lord to  be chosen as their life's companion. Having had the never fading  joy of living with you all these months I can understand so easily  why you should have been granted that privilege. 1 will not make  you blush and wince and wiggle by telling you of all the virtues  which make the very air round you sweet for me to breathe; let me  just tell this much, that in all hours, days, weeks we spent together  never once was my intention, taste, desire in discord with yours,  not on one single point. All you wanted, or did, or thought, or  felt, or planned I found good, right, reasonable, lovable in perfect  harmony with my reactions. So that now, being away I am there,  living in you, as it were, except, my poor sweet love, that all such burden, work, problems, difficulties as doubtless have to be coped  with are left for your shoulders to bear, like always. I only having  the picture of you living in Arya Vihara with beloved Krinsh and  beautiful, incomparable and ever unique-Coco . . . 
你还记得在巴黎见到克里希那吉和拉加戈帕尔之后，我写信给你说，你被选为他们一生的伴侣，一定是侍奉上帝做得多么好。这几个月来，和你一起生活的快乐从未消退，我很容易理解为什么你会被赋予这种特权。我不想告诉你所有的美德，让你脸红、畏缩和扭动，这些美德使你周围的空气对我来说都是甜美的;我只想说这么多，在我们一起度过的所有时光里，我的意图，品味，欲望从未与你有过任何分歧，从未有过任何分歧。你想要的、做的、想的、感觉的、计划的，我都觉得是好的、正确的、合理的、可爱的，与我的反应完全一致。所以现在，我离开了，仿佛住在你的心里，只是，我可怜的爱人，所有这些无疑必须处理的负担、工作、问题和困难，都像往常一样，留给了你的肩膀来承担。我只有你住在Arya Vihara和心爱的krish和美丽的照片，无与伦比的和永远独特的可可…

    I embrace and kiss you with all the tenderness and love of my  heart.  Ever,  LILI 
我抱着你，吻着你，用我全部的温柔和爱。,丽丽

    And Lili's husband, Otto Mandl, also expressed his gratitude for their  stay 1n Qjai: 
莉莉的丈夫奥托・曼德尔(Otto Mandl)也对他们在青海的停留表示感谢。

    June 7th, ??52  My dear Friend Rosalind! 
    People tease me for being an optimist ⌒ But even so I had nearly  given up hope that in this hife of mine I would still be able to find  a place where I can put my roots in the ground . . . We both feel  without hesitation or doubt that we have found our home, our new  and lasting home in your nearness, whatever roof you may ultimately  choose for us in Ojai valley. The loving care you bestowed on us, the  full confidence and 1ts echo, the deep understanding you had for our  needs and wishes, this and much more for which I have no words  but an unfading memory, cannot have been a passing phase . . . 
6月7日??我亲爱的朋友罗莎琳德!
人们嘲笑我是个乐观主义者，但即便如此，我几乎已经放弃了在我的生活中，我仍然能够找到一个地方，我的根在地下…我们都毫不犹豫地感到，我们已经找到了我们的家，我们永恒的新家就在你身边，无论你最终在欧康谷为我们选择什么样的屋顶。你给予我们的关爱，你对我们的信任和回应，你对我们的需要和愿望的深刻理解，还有更多我无法用语言表达，但永远不会褪色的记忆，不可能是一个短暂的阶段……

    I will in London and Paris . . . search for every gleam of hope. for  a solution of the Famine problem which seems to worry Krishnaji  as it worries Aldous. Oh, I know only too well, how Krishnaji (I  hear his words, his very fiery voice) will say: ?(r)What is the use of all  your material remedies, your calculations, your statistics and your  planning, unless you can improve the heart of man?' Let me try just  the same, especially to improve my own mind, to see, think more  clearly, more lovingly, more detachedly. 
我将在伦敦和巴黎……寻找每一丝希望。为了解决饥荒问题，克里希那吉和奥多斯都在担心这个问题。哦，我太清楚了，克里希那吉(我听到了他的话，他那非常火热的声音)会怎么说:“(r)除非你能改善人心，否则你所有的物质疗法、你的计算、你的统计和你的计划又有什么用呢?”让我也试一试，尤其要提高自己的心智，看得更清楚，想得更亲切，更超然。

    One thing I found in your spiritual atmosphere, found it for the first  time in my old age: that the thirty or forty years, since my youth must  have made a rather bad old creature out of me ⌒ this I recognized one  morning, after having lived 3 weeks in Arya Vihara, when suddenly I  felt different, cleaner, unburdened, carefree, with a better conscience  toward my future; and like a revelation I knew: ?(r)That's how I always  felt when I was 16, 19, 25! had lost the memory of it and I must have  been sliding down away from the ?(r)Right Way' into an entanglement  of worries, of impatient efforts, of patching up weaknesses, of futile  vanities ⌒ and suddenly it seemed that fresh strength had been given me to start anew . . . to see once more with a clear mind, to strive  for truth, for unity with the universe, as I did 40 years ago.  [ had no intention to tell you this when I started the letter . . . It  may not be understandable to you, and still I would have hidden the most important thing that happened between us, had I not mentioned  it. Yours with a happy heart,  OTTO 
我在你们的精神氛围中发现了一件事，这是我晚年第一次发现:从我年轻时起的三、四十年，一定把我变成了一个相当坏的老人――这是我在Arya Vihara住了三个星期后的一个早晨意识到的，当时我突然感到不同了，更干净了，卸下了负担，无忧无虑，对我的未来有了更好的良心;我恍然大悟:(r)这就是我16、19、25岁时的感受!我已经失去了对它的记忆，我一定是从“正道”上滑下来的，陷入了忧虑、急躁的努力、弥补弱点和徒劳的虚荣的纠缠中，突然间，我似乎得到了新的力量，可以重新开始……再一次以清晰的头脑看世界，为真理而奋斗，为与宇宙的统一而奋斗，就像我40年前所做的那样。当我开始写这封信的时候，我并没有打算告诉你这件事……你可能无法理解，但如果我不提的话，我还是会隐瞒我们之间发生的最重要的事情。抱着一颗快乐的心，奥托

    Lili and Otto were not the only ones to have these feelings about  Rosalind. Most people who came to Arya Vihara attributed the healing  atmosphere there solely to Krishna, but not all of them. Beato also,  would one day express her feelings about my mother. 
莉莉和奥托并不是唯一对罗莎琳德有这种感觉的人。大多数来到Arya Vihara的人都把那里的治疗气氛完全归功于奎师那，但不是所有人。有一天，比托也会表达她对我母亲的感情。

    As I think of friends who influenced my life, I know that your  mother has meant more to me than anyone else. I doubt ifI could  have hung on had I not met her, for I was in deep confusion, and  she lifted my orientation towards the spiritual life. Being near her  cured me of fanaticism and false worship where the higher life is  concerned, and though Krishnamurti's words meant a great deal to  me, [ understood more of what he said because she lived the actuality  of his thoughts. 
当我想起那些影响了我一生的朋友时，我知道你的母亲对我来说比任何人都重要。我怀疑如果我没有遇到她，我是否还能坚持下去，因为我当时处于深深的困惑之中，而她把我的方向提升到了精神生活。靠近她治愈了我对更高生命的狂热和虚假崇拜，尽管克里希那穆提的话对我意义重大，但我更能理解他所说的话，因为她活在他思想的现实中。

    It started sixty years ago at a party when I saw her glance at your  father with the most beautiful of smiles, as if the heavens opened and  there was no evil in the world, and that glow from her has remained  with me ever since. 
六十年前的一次聚会上，我看到她带着最美丽的微笑望着你父亲，仿佛天堂打开了，世界上没有邪恶，从那以后，她身上散发出的那种光彩一直伴随着我。

    There were times when in despair I went to her for comfort and her  presence clarified the problem and lifted me into another dimension  .. . My life has not only changed living near her, but in the darkness  that comes down at times on most of us, she has been the light.2 
有几次，当我绝望时，我向她寻求安慰，她的出现澄清了问题，把我提升到另一个维度。生活在她身边，我的生活不仅发生了变化，而且在我们大多数人不时遭遇的黑暗中，她一直是光明

    That light was in danger of dimming. Even as close a friend as Beato  could not see the cause of Rosalind's increasing unhappiness. It would  have been difficult for many people to accept that anyone living so close  to Krishna could have problems at all. Many years ago Raja had flinched  when a devotee had given him a vigorous handshake. ?(r)I have arthritis,'  he explained. ?(r)You have arthritis when you live so close to Him?!?± was  the incredulous response. 
那盏灯有变暗的危险。即使像比托这样亲密的朋友也看不出罗莎琳德越来越不快乐的原因。对于许多人来说，很难接受一个住得离奎师那这么近的人会有任何问题。许多年前，当一位奉献者与拉贾有力地握手时，他畏缩了。“我有关节炎，”他解释说。你住得离他这么近，还得了关节炎?±是不相信的回答。

    Raja returned early in July to California to find his immediate family  in a tailspin. Jimmy and I who had been engaged since February now  wanted, for a very good reason, to get married right away. Not yet knowing the story of my mother's secret pregnancies, I was surprised  to find that she took my news so hard. I looked forward most anxiously  to my father's arrival from Europe and my expectations were not in  vain. Raja was able to set aside his own worries enough to reassure  us that all he was concerned about was that we really loved each other  and wanted to marry. He would continue to support me through my  final year of college, as he was anxious that I should finish, and Jimmy's  father agreed to do the same for him so we had no immediate financial  problems. 
拉贾7月初回到加州，发现他的直系亲属陷入了混乱。吉米和我从2月份就订婚了，现在出于一个很好的理由，我们想马上结婚。当时我还不知道母亲秘密怀孕的故事，我惊讶地发现她对我的消息如此震惊。我急切地盼望着父亲从欧洲回来，我的期望没有落空。拉贾能够把自己的担忧放在一边，让我们放心，他所关心的只是我们真的相爱，想要结婚。他会继续资助我完成大学的最后一年，因为他很希望我能完成学业，吉米的父亲也同意为他做同样的事情，这样我们就没有直接的经济问题了。

    Our wedding was a happy occasion. Both family and friends had long  felt that we were perfectly suited for each other and whatever tensions  hung about somehow floated away that day. Even Krinsh who, to my  knowledge, had never gone to anyone's wedding, was at ours and in  his most positive and beneficent mood. Perhaps his attitude about such  things had just mellowed, but he seemed genuinely happy about this  marriage. John Ingelman performed the service for he and Hilda had  been the first people to see me and I had always been exceptionally close  to them. Because John was a priest in the Liberal Catholic Church the  service would be that, as Rosalind's and Raja's had been in London, but  both Jimmy and I insisted on certain religious phrases being removed  which gave John considerable trouble with his bishop. 
我们的婚礼是一个幸福的场合。长期以来，家人和朋友都觉得我们是天作之合，那一天，无论什么紧张的气氛都烟消云散了。就连据我所知从未参加过别人婚礼的克林什，也来参加了我们的婚礼，而且心情非常积极，非常善良。也许他对这类事情的态度刚刚成熟，但他似乎真的为这段婚姻感到高兴。约翰・英格曼主持了仪式，因为他和希尔达是第一批见到我的人，我一直和他们格外亲近。因为约翰是自由天主教堂的牧师，礼拜仪式就像罗莎琳德和拉贾在伦敦举行的那样，但吉米和我都坚持要删除某些宗教用语，这给约翰在主教面前造成了相当大的麻烦。

    We honeymooned briefly in a charming cottage on the Santa Barbara  riviera, belonging to one of Krinsh's elderly spinster devotees. She had  offered the house to Rosalind and Krinsh for the summer. 
我们在圣芭芭拉海滨的一间迷人的小屋里度过了短暂的蜜月，那是科林什的一位老处女信徒的家。她把房子租给罗莎琳德和克林什过夏天。

    Krishna still maintained his long-standing position of having no involve- ment with organizing or publishing his work. Raja had completed the  editing of the first book with Harper's, a slender volume, Education and  the Significance of Life, published in 1953, soon followed by The First and  Last Freedom, with a foreword by Aldous Huxley and then the three  volumes entitled Commentaries on Living. On these last, Raja finally  allowed the publishers to include his name as editor. Both Krishna's  notebooks and his verbatim talks needed meticulous and patient editing,  which Raja had spent most of his time doing for the past twenty-five  years. He had always kept himself in the background even though,  from the beginning, Krishna made it amply and frequently clear that  all publishing was entirely Raja's domain. Raja saw to the contracts and  had an excellent working relationship with the editors, a relationship  in which Krishna showed only the most cursory interest. He was to  reverse this position drastically. 
克里希纳仍然保持着他长期以来的立场，没有参与组织或出版他的作品。拉贾在哈珀出版社完成了第一本书的编辑工作，那是一本薄薄的书，《教育与生命的意义》，于1953年出版，紧接着是《最初和最后的自由》，由奥尔德斯・赫胥黎作序，然后是三卷本的《生活评论》。最后，拉贾终于允许出版商把他的名字作为编辑。克里希纳的笔记和他逐字逐句的演讲都需要一丝不苟和耐心的编辑，这是拉贾在过去25年里花了大部分时间做的。尽管从一开始，克里希纳就多次明确表示，所有的出版都完全是拉贾的领域，但他一直把自己放在幕后。拉贾负责合同，并与编辑保持着良好的工作关系，克里希纳对这种关系只表现出最粗略的兴趣。他将彻底改变这一立场。
 