21 The Letter 这封信

    Krishna's year of retreat in Ojai had done much to heal his relationship  with Rosalind, but he still felt it necessary to convince her of his loyalty.  Shortly before his departure from Ojai in autumn 1952, he gave her the  pencil copy ofa letter he had written to Nandini. He said he was going  to carry the original, of which this was an exact duplicate, to deliver in  person. This gesture of Krishna's did not mean as much to Rosalind as  he might have hoped. She still remembered the letter he had written in  Ommen, which she now knew had never been delivered to Raja. 
克里希纳在欧康的隐居之年对修复他与罗莎琳德的关系起了很大作用，但他仍然觉得有必要让她相信他的忠诚。1952年秋天，在他离开奥康之前不久，他给了她一封铅笔抄写的写给南迪尼的信。他说他要带着原件，这是一模一样的复制品，亲自送过去。克里希纳的这个姿态对罗莎琳德的意义并不像他所希望的那么大。她仍然记得他在阿曼写的那封信，她现在知道那封信从来没有送到拉贾那里。

    Thinking that this was very likely to happen again, Rosalind told  Raja that Krishna had written a letter to Nandini and asked that he see  that it was properly delivered. She did not show him her copy and he  was not aware of its existence. 
罗莎琳德认为这种事很可能再次发生，便告诉拉贾，奎师那给南迪尼写了一封信，请他务必把信妥善送达。她没有给他看她的副本，他也不知道它的存在。

    Always afraid of indiscreet letters falling into the wrong hands, with  Krishna's approval, Raja agreed to carry the letter among his papers  for safe keeping until they arrived in India. There, unless Rosalind  advised otherwise, he would give it to Krishna to deliver. While Raja  did not wish to involve himself further in the matter, he hoped that the  situation would be resolved as quickly and quietly as possible. He well  understood the strain Rosalind had been under and sympathized, but her relationship-with Krishna, in addition to the personal anguish it caused  him, had greatly complicated his professional life. Now the last thing he  ~ wanted was to be caught in another triangle, that of Krishna, Rosalind  and Nandini. He had tried all these years, as part of what he felt to be his duty toward Krishna and ?(r)the Work', to protect both from the muddles  and messes that Krishna too often generated around him. He did not  ?°regard this letter as a prudent course for Krishna to take and hoped  Rosalind would encourage Krishna to drop the whole matter. Raja was  wearying of these complications and would gradually withdraw more  and more. He found travelling with Krishna and arranging the details  of his life an increasing source of irritation. 
拉贾总是担心轻率的信件落入坏人之手，在克里希纳的同意下，拉贾同意把这封信放在他的文件中妥善保管，直到他们到达印度。在那里，除非罗莎琳德另有建议，否则他会把它交给奎师那交付。虽然拉贾不希望自己进一步卷入此事，但他希望这一局势能够尽快和悄悄地得到解决。他非常理解罗莎琳德所承受的压力，也很同情她，但她与克里希纳的关系，除了给他带来的个人痛苦之外，还极大地复杂化了他的职业生活。现在他最不愿意做的就是陷入另一个三角关系中，那就是克里希纳、罗莎琳德和南迪尼。这些年来，作为他对奎师那和“工作”的责任的一部分，他一直在努力保护他们免受奎师那经常在他周围制造的混乱和混乱。他不认为这封信是克里希纳应该采取的谨慎做法，并希望罗莎琳德能鼓励克里希纳放下这件事。拉贾已经厌倦了这些复杂的情况，他会越来越多地退出。他发现与奎师那一起旅行和安排他的生活细节越来越使他恼火。

    From a later vantage point, one can see that the old cornerstone of  their lives together had crumbled disastrously. But at the time they all failed to clarify between themselves exactly what the new cornerstone,  if any, would be. Raja had believed that there was a bond of affection  between the three of them that excluded none of them. The physical  relationship between Krishna and Rosalind had upset the balance. For  him or Rosalind to have become involved with an outside party would  not have had the same impact on their lives. For Krishna to become  involved with anyone at all was in contradiction to the chaste publicimage  he himself had established and to which Raja had lent his trust. Raja felt  that a severe transgression of this trust had taken place but that this  transgression had ended. If he had read the letter, at least the copy that  Krishna left with Rosalind (which may or may not have resembled the  original), Raja would have realized that in Krishna's mind the affair with  Rosalind was far from over. For in that copy of his letter to Nandini,  Krishna stated that there was a woman in his life who had been there  for more than twenty years and that such a relationship was not to be  broken and he didn't intend to break it. He went on to apologize if his  letters or conversations had given a misleading impression and advised  Nandini not to build around false hope. 
从后来的角度来看，人们可以看到，他们共同生活的旧基石已经灾难性地崩塌了。但当时，他们都没能弄清楚新的基石到底是什么，如果有的话。拉贾相信他们三个之间有一种感情纽带，不会排斥他们中的任何一个。克里希纳和罗莎琳德之间的肉体关系打破了平衡。对他或罗莎琳德来说，与外界交往不会对他们的生活产生同样的影响。对于奎师那来说，与任何人交往都是与他自己建立的纯洁的公众形象相矛盾的，而拉贾也给予了他信任。拉贾感到对这种信任的严重违背已经发生，但是这种违背已经结束了。如果他读过那封信，至少是克里希纳留给罗莎琳德的那份(可能与原件相似，也可能与原件不相似)，拉贾就会意识到，在克里希纳心目中，他与罗莎琳德的恋情远未结束。因为在他写给南迪尼的信中，奎师那说，他生命中有一个女人，她已经在那里呆了二十多年，这样的关系是不会破裂的，他也不打算破坏它。如果他的信件或谈话给人一种误导的印象，他接着道歉，并建议南迪尼不要建立在虚假的希望之上。

    As usual, Raja left for London somewhat ahead of Krishna, from  where he wrote to Rosalind before Krishna left Ojai to join him. 
像往常一样，拉贾比克里希纳先去了伦敦，在克里希纳离开奥海与他会合之前，他从伦敦写信给罗莎琳德。

    2nd October, 1952 
    Thank you for your very dear letter which I received on the boat just before sailing. 1 hope you are feeling a little rested. Please don't exhaust yourself. It is better to live doing little than to die doing too much. 
    That special letter is still with me, and I hope to hear from you definitely about it once again before anything is done. 
    London is bitterly cold and dreary. Please tell Krishna to be warmly dressed. Usually he likes to carry his overcoat on one arm and his coat on the other, and freeze and look miserable. 
    Please pat Coco for me, and tell her how much I love her. She is some Coco ⌒ one can't forget her easily. 
    All my love, 
    RAJA 
1952年10月2日
我在启航前在船上收到了你那封非常亲切的信。我希望你已经休息好了。请不要劳累。宁生少做，不死多做。
那封特别的信还在我身边，我希望在一切结束之前能再次收到你的确切消息。
伦敦寒冷而沉闷。请告诉奎师那穿暖和点。通常他喜欢一只胳膊挎着大衣，另一只胳膊挎着大衣，然后冻住，看起来很痛苦。
请帮我拍拍可可，告诉她我有多爱她。她很迷人，让人难以忘怀。
我所有的爱，
拉贾

    Krishna continued with his daily writings to Rosalind. Ardent affir- mations of his love for her were interspersed with descriptions of people  and scenery and details of their daily existence. Kitty Shiva Rao and her  brother-in-law Sir B.N. Rao, Indian Ambassador to the United Nations,  were on the plane with them as far as Rome. They both stopped off in Alexandria to visit the Suar¨|s, who had a villa there in addition to their apartment in Paris. (They would shortly, under Nasser, lose most of their money and all their holdings in Egypt). Krishna walked with Carlo Suar¨|s along the beach in Alexandria while Raja slept. That Krishna's concern for his public image was as strong as Raja assumed it to be was graphically tested a few days later. There came what was for Krishna a nerve-racking episode. Ready to depart from Bombay in Cairo airport, they were temporary victims of the domestic tensions in Egypt. In customs every shoe and every pocket was felt and searched. 
克里希纳继续每天给罗莎琳德写信。他对她热情洋溢的爱恋，穿插着对人物、风景和日常生活细节的描写。基蒂・希瓦・拉奥和她的姐夫、印度驻联合国大使B.N.拉奥爵士与他们一起乘坐飞机抵达罗马。他们俩都在亚历山大港停留，拜访了苏埃尔夫妇。苏埃尔夫妇除了在巴黎的公寓外，还在亚历山大港有一座别墅。(在纳赛尔的统治下，他们很快就失去了在埃及的大部分资金和所有资产)。在拉贾睡觉的时候，克里希纳和卡洛・苏埃尔斯沿着亚历山大的海滩散步。克里希纳对自己公众形象的关注和拉贾想象的一样强烈，几天后得到了生动的检验。对克里希纳来说，这是一个伤脑筋的插曲。准备在开罗机场离开孟买时，他们暂时成为了埃及国内紧张局势的受害者。在海关，每只鞋和每一个口袋都要被摸和搜查。

    Officials read all the letters that Raja was carrying but by some miracle missed the one intended for Nandini and also the one Krishna was in the process of writing to Rosalind and had not yet mailed. He mailed it from Bombay, expressing his resolve never again to be caught with such a letter on his person. He thanked God they hadn't found the letter to Nandini either. Before closing, he resumed the pattern of his previous letters from India, stressing Raja's close association with   Pupul and Nandini, while he, Krishna stayed home alone writing to  Rosalind, feeling her closeness and his love for her and asserting that  all the ado about ?(r)that other person' was faded and forgotten. 
官员们读了拉贾随身携带的所有信件，但奇迹般地错过了写给南迪尼的一封，还有一封克里希纳正在给罗莎琳德写信，但还没有寄出。他把信从孟买寄了出去，表示他决心再也不让人发现他身上带着这样的信。他感谢上帝，他们也没有找到那封写给南迪尼的信。在结束之前，他恢复了以前从印度写信的模式，强调拉贾与普普尔和南迪尼的密切联系，而他，克里希纳独自呆在家里给罗莎琳德写信，感受她的亲密和他对她的爱，并断言所有关于另一个人的喧嚣都已淡忘。

    For the next four months Rosalind was given almost daily excuses  for why the letter had still not been delivered to Nandini. At first  Raja was the reason. Krishna claimed that Raja refused to turn over  the letter saying it should not be delivered as it would cause gossip and  involve him and Rosalind. Krishna assured Rosalind that he tried each  day to bring up the subject and got nowhere. He said he would not  give up, even if it meant writing another letter and sending i1t without  Raja's approval. This he somehow never got around to doing. By  mid-December he had a new excuse. Nandini's health was poor and  Krishna was worried that she did not have the strength to read such  a letter, so delivery would have to be postponed. After that Krishna  and Raja went to Benares and from there, according to Krishna,  it was not safe to mail the letter as the mail was easily tampered  with. 
在接下来的四个月里，罗莎琳德几乎每天都得到解释为什么那封信还没有送到南迪尼手里的借口。起初拉贾是原因。克里希纳声称，拉贾拒绝交出这封信，说它不应该交付，因为这会引起流言蜚语，并涉及他和罗莎琳德。克里希纳向罗莎琳德保证，他每天都试图提起这个话题，但一无所获。他说他不会放弃，即使这意味着要在没有拉贾同意的情况下再写一封信寄出去。不知怎的，他一直没有抽出时间来做这件事。到12月中旬，他有了一个新的借口。南迪尼的健康状况很差，克里希纳担心她没有力气读这样一封信，所以分娩将不得不推迟。在那之后，奎师那和拉贾去了贝拿勒斯，根据奎师那的说法，从那里寄信是不安全的，因为邮件很容易被篡改。

    Rosalind had long since realized that the letter would not be delivered and was too involved with her work to give it much more thought.  In Krishna's absence the whole matter lost its significance. She made  no effort to communicate with Raja about it. Later, Raja claimed  he had long before handed it over to Krishna, there had not been  those endless discussions and he forgot about it, never suspecting  that he had been worked into Krishna's dissemblance. What had evi~  -dently occupied a considerable amount of Krishna's thought had been  pushed to the background by both Rosalind and Raja. By February  the subject was dropped for ever and no more was heard of the  letter. 
罗莎琳德早就意识到这封信不会寄出去了，她的工作太忙了，没有多想。奎师那不在，整个事情失去了意义。她没有努力和拉贾沟通这件事。后来，拉贾声称他很久以前就把它交给了奎师那，没有那些无休止的讨论，他忘记了这件事，从未怀疑过他被奎师那的伪装所欺骗。曾经在克里希纳的思想中占据相当大比重的东西，被罗莎琳德和拉贾推到了次要位置。到了二月，这个话题就永远地抛到脑后了，再也没有听到过那封信的消息。

    Raja's health was poor that year. Krishna thought Raja had strained  something doing yoga, which he had been persuaded by Krishna to  take up. He found it hard to swallow and developed an intermittent  pain in his oesophagus. This would become a chronic problem with  serious side effects and I would later wonder if the cause was not yoga  but that there had just been too many things for him to ?(r)swallow'. He  gave only a hint of this in his letters to my mother: 
那一年拉贾的健康状况很差。奎师那认为拉贾在做瑜伽时拉伤了什么，是奎师那劝他去做的。他感到吞咽困难，食道间歇性疼痛。这将成为一个长期的问题，有严重的副作用，我后来会想，原因是不是不是瑜伽，而是太多的东西让他无法吞咽。”他在给我母亲的信中只暗示了一点:

    Poona Jan 12, 1953  Rosalind Darling, 
    I received the only letter, since I arrived in India, that you have  written. I have been. I know, very remiss, and I am very sorry.  Not a day has passed without my thinking of you with deep love  . . . Please remember letters get lost here very easily, or opened &  thrown away ⌒ So write guardedly & do not forget to glue and seal  properly. 
1953年1月12日，罗莎琳德・达林
自从我到印度以来，我收到了你写的唯一一封信。我一直在。我知道，很疏忽，我很抱歉。没有一天我不想念你，深情的爱…请记住，信件在这里很容易丢失，或者被打开并扔掉，所以要小心书写，不要忘记用胶水和密封。

    Of course 1 shall be there for Radha's graduation or even before 
    ⌒ Hope all goes well ⌒ Thinking of you constantly with deepest  love,  RAJA 
    Bombay March 1, 1953  Thank you, Darling, for the 2 cables. The first one made me rather  worried & then a few hours later came the good news. I am very  happy, all is well. 
我当然会出席拉达的毕业典礼，甚至更早
我时时刻刻怀着深深的爱想着你，RAJA
孟买1953年3月1日亲爱的，谢谢你发来的两封电报。第一个消息让我很担心，几个小时后传来了好消息。我很高兴，一切都好。

    How is the new Baby & how is her dear, darling mother? To think  of Radhi with a baby girl. Incredible!! What name has the Baby? I  wonder if Radha & Jimmy liked my suggestion? 
新出生的婴儿和她亲爱的妈妈好吗?想想拉迪和一个女婴。难以置信! !宝宝叫什么名字?不知道Radha和Jimmy是否喜欢我的建议?

    All my love, always,  RAJA  [handwritten on the bottom of typed letter]  Things are not right for me here. I am afraid finally so. Well - That is the end of the long matter. However I shall go on - 
我所有的爱，永远，RAJA[在打字的信的底部手写]这里的事情不适合我。恐怕最后还是这样了。好了-这事就到此结束了。不过我要继续说下去

   Krishna made it clear to Rosalind too. in his own way that things  were not right between him and Raja. He was justifiably indignant  that Raja failed to inform him when Jimmy's and my baby was born.  It was twelve days after the news had come, before Raja mentioned it to him, a clear indication of estrangement, large or small, between  them. 
克里希纳也对罗莎琳德说得很清楚。用他自己的方式来表达他和拉贾之间的矛盾他对拉贾没有通知他吉米和我的孩子出生的时间感到愤怒，这是可以理解的。消息传来十二天之后，拉贾才向他提起这件事，这明显表明他们之间或大或小的疏远。

    Yet another cause for conflict was on the horizon. Lady Emily  wanted to publish Candles in the Sun, the autobiography of her years  with Theosophy and Krishna. Once again Raja would be the scapegoat  during the period of bitter controversy that would ensue.  
 另一个引发冲突的原因即将出现。埃米莉夫人想出版《太阳下的蜡烛》，这是她与神智学和奎师那相处的岁月的自传。在随后的激烈争论中，拉贾又一次成为了替罪羊。