22 Candles in the Storm 风暴中的蜡烛

    As he had promised, Raja returned to California in time for my  graduation from Scripps College and Jimmy's graduation from Pomona  in June 1953. The two colleges were adjacent and we had lived for the  past year in a small apartment in Claremont. In July we moved with our  baby, Catherine Anjali, to northern California, where Jimmy worked  as a physicist at the Atomic Energy Commission for a year before we  both went on to graduate school at Berkeley. 
1953年6月，拉贾如约回到加州，正好赶上我和吉米分别从斯克里普斯学院和波莫纳学院毕业。这两所学院毗邻，过去一年我们一直住在克莱蒙特的一间小公寓里。7月，我们带着孩子凯瑟琳・安贾利搬到了加州北部，吉米在原子能委员会做了一年的物理学家，之后我们俩都去伯克利读研究生。

    There was also another change in the family: Louis Zalk's wife had  recently died and Erma and Louis were married that summer of 1953.  They were 1n their late sixties and were to enjoy ten years of happily  married life. We would remain very close to them both. Louis had  always been a strong presence in our lives and his devotion to both  Krishna and Raja had been steadfast. 
这个家庭还有另一个变化:路易斯・扎克的妻子最近去世了，埃尔玛和路易斯在1953年夏天结婚。他们都快60岁了，准备享受10年幸福的婚姻生活。我们将与他们保持密切联系。路易斯在我们的生活中一直是一个强有力的存在，他对克里希纳和拉贾的忠诚是坚定不移的。

    Rosalind had been offered a house on the south edge of Point Lobos  in the Carmel Highlands, and she and Krinsh spent a good part of that  summer there, with us joining them on weekends. 
有人给罗莎琳德提供了一套位于卡梅尔高地Lobos角南端的房子，她和克林什在那里度过了那个夏天的大部分时间，周末我们也会和他们在一起。

    At fifty-eight, Krishna still wanted the same physical relationship  with Rosalind that had started twenty years before and which, in spite  of the recent contentiousness between them, had not, as Raja believed,  yet terminated. The house on Point Lobos stood in isolated scenic  beauty, opening on to the State Park and hanging over a churning  sea below. The bark of sea-lions was constant above the waves and  the tide pools harboured an array of exquisite sea creatures. Except for  our visits on the weekends, there was every opportunity for intimacy.  On Rosalind's side, their relationship had become a habit like the habit  of a marriage that is no longer good but not bad enough to struggle  through an ending. But at times like this, away from the pressures  of the school, she still felt resurrectional sparks of their old love and  Krishna made every effort to fan these embers. He acted toward me as  he always had and assumed a grandfatherly role toward Tinka (as we had  nicknamed our baby). He was pleased that her middle name was Anjalj,  my father's suggestion, and explained that it meant in Sanskrit literally the space between the hands when held together in greeting, or infinite  peace. I felt at times that we were once again the family we had always  been, which expanded under the same tension to incorporate my father  on his infrequent appearances. While Raja and Rosalind expressed deep  affection towards each other in their letters, their personalities caused  conflict in direct communion, exacerbated by the presence of Krinsh,  who often went back and forth between them like a child intent on  dividing and ruling. Ostensibly trying to make peace, the comments  he repeated and the tales he told inevitably led to worse arguments.  My father's disposition became more and more irascible and even his  close friends began to wonder at this change, making it all the easier  for Krishna in the near future to draw on their sympathy.  Krishna and Raja left again for Europe and India in the autumn.  Krishna's letters began to express a more philosophical tone than they  had in the past, but he still included his declarations of love. He entreated  Rosalind to remain open to everything, including their love and to feel  their closeness.  Raja was busy in Europe arranging foreign translations and copy- rights, and meeting with the editor from Harper's, who was in Rome.  Krishna joined them in a tour of the Vatican and cxpressed to Rosalind  his approval of Raja's efforts. For some time he would continue, in small  ways, to assure Rosalind of this approval of Raja, just as he assured her  of his love for her, as if he were anxious to maintain a status quo, to keep  their relationships and their lives as they had always been. Sometimes  he seemed to be chiding her, saying it was thoughtless and destructive  to obscure their love by their behaviour.  Lady Emily had asked Raja to come and see her about a book she had  written, but both his health, his own involvement in publishing, and  an instinct that this was going to be a sticky matter, led him to defer  this interview and he and Krishna went off to India without fulfilling  her request. Krishna, however, wrote and asked that he and Raja could  see the book before it went to press. Lady Emily took the trouble to  send her manuscript to Madras with the hope that they would return  it as soon as possible. She had a publisher and was naturally anxious to  proceed. Krishna refused to look at the manuscript carefully, although  he glanced at it peripherally and indicated to Raja that it should not be  published.  Raja, who read it thoroughly, thought this was unfair to Lady Emily,  that there were things in it that could be deleted to spare various people's feelings but that it was an important record of Krishna's development  at a crucial era in his life, as well as the historical events around the  Theosophical Society. However, he felt his suggestions would be too  involved to handle by correspondence and urged Lady Emily to hold  up publication until they could all discuss it together. 

在五十八岁的时候，克里希纳仍然希望与罗莎琳德保持二十年前开始的那种肉体关系，尽管他们之间最近发生了争执，但正如拉贾所相信的那样，这种关系还没有结束。这所位于洛博斯角的房子坐落在与世隔绝的美景中，面对着州立公园，俯视着下面翻腾的大海。海狮的吠声始终在海浪之上，潮池里栖息着一群精美的海洋生物。除了周末的拜访，我们有很多亲密的机会。在罗莎琳德这边，他们的关系已经变成了一种习惯，就像婚姻的习惯一样，不再好，但还没有坏到要挣扎着走到尽头。但在这样的时候，离开了学校的压力，她仍然感到他们旧爱的复活的火花，克里希纳尽一切努力煽起这些余烬。他对我一如既往，对汀卡(我们给孩子起的昵称)就像爷爷一样。他很高兴她的中间名是Anjalj，这是我父亲的建议，并解释说，在梵语中，它的字面意思是握手打招呼时双手之间的空间，或无限的和平。有时我觉得我们又回到了原来的那个家庭，在同样的紧张气氛下，我父亲偶尔露面，我们的家庭也随之扩大。虽然拉贾和罗莎琳德在信中表达了对彼此的深情，但他们的个性在直接交流中引发了冲突，而克林什的出现加剧了冲突，他经常在他们之间来回穿梭，就像一个想要分裂和统治的孩子。表面上，他试图和解，但他重复的评论和他讲述的故事不可避免地导致了更严重的争吵。父亲的性情变得越来越暴躁，甚至他的亲密朋友也开始对这种变化感到奇怪，这使得克里希纳在不久的将来更容易获得他们的同情。秋天，克里希纳和拉贾再次前往欧洲和印度。克里希纳的信开始比过去表达一种更哲学的语气，但他仍然包括他的爱的宣言。他恳求罗莎琳德对一切保持开放，包括他们的爱，感受他们的亲密。拉贾在欧洲忙着安排外国翻译和版权事宜，还在罗马会见《哈伯》杂志的编辑。克里希纳和他们一起参观了梵蒂冈，并向罗莎琳德表达了他对拉贾努力的认可。在一段时间里，他会继续以一些小的方式向罗莎琳德保证他对拉贾的认可，就像他向她保证他爱她一样，好像他急于维持现状，保持他们的关系和生活一如既往。有时他似乎在责备她，说用他们的行为来掩盖他们的爱情是轻率的，是有害的。埃米莉夫人曾邀请拉贾来见她，谈谈她写的一本书，但他的健康状况、他自己也参与出版工作，以及本能地认为这将是一件棘手的事情，导致他推迟了这次采访，他和克里希纳没有答应她的要求就去了印度。然而，克里希纳写信要求他和拉贾在付印前能看看这本书。爱米丽夫人不厌其烦地把她的手稿寄到马德拉斯，希望他们能尽快归还。她有了一个出版商，自然急于继续下去。奎师那拒绝仔细看手稿，尽管他粗略地看了一眼，并向拉贾示意它不应该出版。拉贾通读了一遍，觉得这对爱米丽夫人不公平，里面有些东西可以删掉，以免引起不同人的感情，但这是克里希纳在他生命中一个关键时期发展的重要记录，以及与神智学会有关的历史事件。然而，他觉得他的建议太复杂了，无法通过通信来处理，他敦促埃米莉夫人推迟出版，直到他们都能一起讨论。

    Raja had the added complication of explaining Krishna's attitude, for  Krishna refused to do this himself. It was clear that Krishna didn't  want it published at all, but he would not be pinned down, claiming  he had not read it, though he had obviously read enough to draw  a negative conclusion. What had struck him was the inclusion of his  experience under the pepper tree in Ojai. Lady Emily had been one  of the privileged few to receive the full account typed by Raja in 1923  and she had included that in her book as well as many letters to her  from Krishna, revealing his innermost thoughts about Theosophy, his  protectors and other relationships. 

拉贾还要解释奎师那的态度，因为奎师那自己拒绝这么做。很明显，克里希纳根本不希望这本书出版，但他不会被压制，声称自己没有读过这本书，尽管他显然已经读得足够多，可以得出否定的结论。让他印象深刻的是他在奥康辣椒树下的经历。埃米莉夫人是少数有幸收到拉贾在1923年打印的完整描述的人之一，她把它和许多克里希纳写给她的信一起收录在她的书中，揭示了他对神智学、他的保护者和其他关系的内心深处的想法。

    In 1953, Krishna was as adamantly opposed to many Theosophists  and their views, as he had been when he broke with the society. He  had no wish to be reminded, or to have his public reminded, of his  origins in the Theosophical Society. All this Raja understood ⌒ and he  sympathized with much of it. He felt, however, that the book could be  satisfactorily edited. He also felt that Krishna must speak for himself  and directly to Lady Emily. Meanwhile Lady Emily was left hanging  with the clear impression that Krishna was too tired to read her book  and would let her know about it later. Raja had made the mistake of  protecting Krishna by excusing the delay because of Krishna's fatigue.  Much as Nitya had suffered over Krishna's treatment of Mrs Besant,  Raja began to imagine the same situation for himself evolving around  Lady Emily's book. He tried to get Krishna to take a clear stand. But  Krishna characteristically insisted that he would neither approve nor  disapprove, that Lady Emily must come to the right decision herself.  In addition to this issue, which Raja correctly foresaw was to bring  grief all around, the trouble with his oesophagus flared up again. 

1953年，克里希纳坚决反对许多神智学家和他们的观点，就像他与社会决裂时一样。他不希望别人提醒他，或让他的公众提醒他，他起源于神智学会。拉贾对这一切都很了解，也很同情。不过，他觉得这本书可以编辑得令人满意。他也觉得奎师那必须为自己说话，直接对爱米丽夫人说话。与此同时，艾米丽夫人留下了一个清晰的印象，那就是克里希纳太累了，不想读她的书，以后会告诉她的。拉贾犯了保护奎师那的错误，为奎师那的疲劳而延误找借口。就像尼提亚因克里希纳对待贝桑特夫人而感到痛苦一样，拉贾开始想象，围绕着艾米丽夫人的书，自己也会有同样的处境。他试图让克里希纳采取明确的立场。但克里希纳一贯坚持，他既不赞成也不反对，爱米丽夫人必须自己做出正确的决定。除了这个问题之外，拉贾正确地预见到他会给周围的人带来悲伤，他的食道问题又爆发了。

    Life in India was complex for him emotionally. He was often caught  between Krishna's new affections and enthusiasms and the consequent  appearance of disinterest toward his old workers, who had devoted  years to helping him. Krishna had always needed the association with  famous, well-to-do and colourful people, while Raja was content to  build his friendships among those who were loyal and conscientious  and with whom he had a good working relationship; not very exciting,  but he had never sought excitement or outward stimulation. There were  the inevitable bruised feelings and rivalries endemic in most ?(r)spiritual'  circles. When Raja had believed he and Krishna and Rosalind stood  together on a solid base of commitment to a way of life, it had  been easier to cope with outside personality problems. His letters to  Rosalind, only hint at the increasing depression which was soon to  consume him. 

对他来说，印度的生活在情感上很复杂。他经常被夹在奎师那新的感情和热情和随之而来的对多年来帮助他的老工人漠不关心的表象之间。克里希纳总是需要与著名的、富裕的、多姿多彩的人交往，而拉贾则满足于与那些忠诚、认真、与他有良好工作关系的人建立友谊;不是很刺激，但他从不寻求刺激或外界刺激。在大多数精神圈子里，不可避免地会有受伤的感情和对抗。当拉贾相信他与克里希纳和罗莎琳德站在一起是基于对某种生活方式的坚定承诺时，处理外部人格问题就容易多了。他写给罗莎琳德的信只是暗示了他日益加重的沮丧，这种沮丧很快就要把他吞噬。

    Darling Rosalind, 
    It has not been possible or easy for me to write often; my life in India  these few months has been an exact repetition of last year's, nothing  whatsoever new, same everything including the problems, but I have  thought and thought of you, and you will have known that. 
亲爱的罗莎琳德,
经常写信对我来说既不可能也不容易;这几个月我在印度的生活和去年一模一样，没有什么新鲜的，一切都一样，包括问题，但我一直想着你，你会知道的。

    Unlike Rosalind, he could not and would not walk away from  problems or pretend they did not exist. He was still determined to  carry the responsibilities he had assumed nearly thirty years before.  Nevertheless, he was feeling the need to withdraw from a close asso- ciation with Krishna, although at this point their lives were still tightly  bound together. 
不像罗莎琳德，他不能也不会回避问题，或者假装问题不存在。他仍然决心承担起他近30年前承担的责任。然而，他感到有必要从与奎师那的亲密关系中退出，尽管此时他们的生活仍然紧密地联系在一起。

    Rosalind too was undergoing some basic changes. More and more  the school was absorbing her attention and becoming her whole life.  Her energy, which had been severely tested during the war, had not  regained its high level. Yet it was still vital. When Krishna and Raja  were in Ojal, or when Jimmy and [ came to visit, her outward activity  was the same. She still ran the houschold herself, cooking meals at either  end ofa long day at school. Her focus, however, was obviously on her  work. Her thoughts, as reflected in her conversations, were all related  to the school. Her close friends like Lili noticed the change. 
罗莎琳德也在经历一些基本的变化。学校越来越吸引她的注意力，成为她生活的全部。她的精力在战争中受到了严重的考验，还没有恢复到原来的高度。但它仍然至关重要。当奎师那和拉贾在奥哈尔时，或者当吉米和拉贾来拜访时，她的外在活动是一样的。她仍然自己操刀家务，在学校度过漫长的一天后，在放学的时候做饭。然而，她的注意力显然集中在工作上。从她的谈话中可以看出，她的思想都与学校有关。像莉莉这样的好朋友注意到了她的变化。

    Today 1s the 24th of December  & it is the first free hour in which, at long last, I can go on with  this letter . . . but I will never be able to say with words all that  is in my heart. I am longing for you with soul and spirit; I already  missed you grievously during our last stay in the Ojai. Somehow  there was never time enough for the sweet, peaceful relationship; for  the exchange of thoughts, ideas; for the beholding of the other's being  in wishless, grateful wonder ofa fulfilled friendship as it all happened  in that unforgettable first sejour of ours in your house. But flowers  do blossom differently every year &, as Goethe said ?(r)and, oh, you  will not swim in the same river for the second time'. But the river  is all there, lovely & mighty, but changed, with new waters running  through its bed. And you are there too, in the old-new sameness ⌒  & all this is as it should be . . . ever yours, 
    LILI 

今天是12月24日，这是我终于可以继续写这封信的第一个空闲时间…但我永远无法用语言表达我心中的一切。我的心灵切切地想念你们。上次在欧康的时候我已经很想你了。不知何故，他们永远没有足够的时间来维持甜蜜、和平的关系;用于思想、观念的交流;在我们难忘的第一次在你家里的生活中，看到对方对一段圆满的友谊充满了渴望和感激。但是，正如歌德所说，每年花开的都不一样，“哦，你不会在同一条河里游泳第二次”。但是河水还在那里，可爱而有力，只是变了，有新的水从河床流过。你也在那里，在旧的，新的相同&这一切都是应该的…过你的,
丽丽

   In Madras, Krishna was still taking his walks, gazing across the Adyar  river at the Theosophical land where he had once been happy and which  he was told was still beautiful. He would not break his resolution to never  set foot there, but Theosophists came to his talks and he commented to  Rosalind that they are not a thoughtful breed. 

在马德拉斯，克里希纳仍在散步，凝视着阿德亚尔河对岸那片他曾经快乐过的、被告知依然美丽的通神之地。他不愿违背决不踏足那里的决心，但是通神论者来参加他的谈话，他对罗莎琳德说他们不是善于思考的人。

    He wrote her repeated warnings about certain Theosophical Society  members who had come to Ojai and were involved in the Happy Valley  School. He was adamant that their influence should not enter into the  school. He repeatedly insisted that she must speak in the assemblies and  keep a tight rein on the general atmosphere, to create the right feeling  of oneness and not leave it to others to interpret. No one reading his  letters could doubt that he had a strong interest in the school, but just  how strong was not yet clear. He evidently felt confident that Rosalind  would transmit, without conscious effort, his ideas. He had insisted  from the start that he wanted no official connection with the school.  It would become clear in the future that he assumed he would have a  pipeline to it through Rosalind. 

他一再给她写信，警告她提防某些神智学会的成员，他们来到奥康，参与了欢乐谷学校。他坚决不让他们的影响进入学校。他一再坚持，她必须在集会上发言，并严格控制整个氛围，以创造一种正确的感觉，而不是把它留给别人来解释。没有人读过他的信会怀疑他对学校有强烈的兴趣，但到底有多强烈还不清楚。显然，他相信罗莎琳德会毫不费力地把他的想法传达出去。他从一开始就坚持不希望与学校有任何官方联系。后来很明显，他认为他可以通过罗莎琳德找到一条通向它的管道。

    In March 1954, Jimmy and I had our second and last child, whom  we named Robert after Mr Robbie. My father found a moment of  happiness in this news, writing to us from Athens, 

1954年3月，吉米和我生了第二个也是最后一个孩子，我们以罗比先生的名字给他取名罗伯特。听到这个消息，父亲感到一阵高兴，他从雅典写信给我们，

    Dearest Radha & Jimmy, 
    The day I received the news about Baby Robert I went to the Acropolis by myself and sat at the Parthenon and thought of you and Mummy and the newborn, and sent you from there all my love and blessings ⌒ It was such a lovely coincidence that I could be at the Parthenon that day ~ you can have no idea, till you see it, how beautiful it is ⌒ not only that but the Acropolis & all around it the sea ⌒ I am sure that one day you will come here & see it all ⌒ That at least was what I wished when I had just heard of my dear new friend Baby Robert. 
    It is good that all has gone well, darling & I hope you are very happy. Please send me a snapshot of the baby & also of Tinka. 
    All my love to you Four, 
    DADDY 

亲爱的Radha & Jimmy:
收到罗伯特宝宝的消息的那天，我一个人去了卫城，坐在帕台农神庙旁，想着你、妈妈和刚出生的孩子，我把我所有的爱和祝福都送给了你。那天我能在帕台农神庙真是太巧了~你不看到它是不会知道的。不仅如此，雅典卫城和它周围的大海也是如此美丽，我相信总有一天你会来这里看看这一切，这至少是我听到我亲爱的新朋友小罗伯特的消息时所希望的。
一切都很好，亲爱的，我希望你很开心。请给我发一张宝宝和Tinka的快照。
把我所有的爱都献给你们四个，
爸爸

    In Athens, the problem of Lady Emily's book was finally confronted,  at least to some degree, by Krishna. He still refrained from making a  positive statement about whether it should or should not be published.  He used on Lady Emily and her daughter, Mary, very much the same technique he used in his lectures and discussions: to lead his listeners  to his view while making them feel they were finding their own path.  They were to be open, drop their preconceptions and their desires,  and experience what he was saying. This procedure had mixed success  when working with abstractions. It was totally disastrous when applied  to anything so concrete as a book. He admitted now that he had read it  very carefully, that it read very well. Only in talking it over together  could a right decision be reached as to whether it should or should not  be published, and that decision would not be his. 

在雅典，克里希纳最终，至少在某种程度上，解决了埃米莉夫人的书的问题。他仍然没有就该不该发表发表肯定的声明。他在艾米丽夫人和她的女儿玛丽身上使用的技巧，与他在演讲和讨论中使用的技巧非常相似:引导听众接受他的观点，同时让他们觉得自己找到了自己的道路。他们要敞开心扉，放下先入为主的观念和欲望，体验他所说的一切。这个过程在处理抽象时成败参半。当应用到像书这样具体的东西上时，它完全是灾难性的。他现在承认他读得很仔细，读得很好。只有在一起讨论之后，才能就是否应该出版作出正确的决定，而这个决定不是他的。

    Raja had hoped that if he kept his opinions to himself Krishna would  be forced to come to his own decision and make his opinion clear to  Lady Emily. He soon saw that this hope was in vain. When they arrived  in London, Krishna was reluctant to discuss the book at all and brought  up no objections whatever with Lady Emily. He did show an interest  and enthusiasm for the title, Candles in the Sun, the sun being the World  Teacher in whose light all the candles (those who awaited his coming)  were dimmed. This single approbation led Lady Emily and Mary to  assume there were no further objections and they procceded with the  publication ⌒ little realizing that the storm had just begun.  
 拉贾曾希望，如果克里希纳不把自己的意见告诉别人，他就会被迫做出自己的决定，并把自己的意见告诉埃米莉夫人。他很快就发现这个希望是徒劳的。当他们到达伦敦时，克里希纳根本不愿意讨论这本书，也没有向艾米丽夫人提出任何反对意见。他确实对《太阳下的蜡烛》这个标题表现出了兴趣和热情，太阳是世界的导师，在他的光芒下，所有的蜡烛(那些等待他到来的蜡烛)都黯然失色。这一赞同使埃米莉夫人和玛丽以为没有别的反对意见了，她们继续出版，几乎没有意识到风暴刚刚开始。
