23 Out Out Brief Candles 熄灭短暂的蜡烛

    There were endless discussions that summer about Lady Emily's book,  often in my presence, both in Carmel and Ojai. Like Raja, Rosalind felt  that it would be unfair to ask Lady Emily not to publish it, but Krinsh  had convinced her that the role she played in the ?(r)process' incident, as  described by Nitya, because of her connection to the school, would  bring undesirable publicity to it. She suggested her name could be left  out, but saw no reason to stop the book. Publication was scheduled for  the autumn and Raja had been sent a next-to-final set of page proofs. 

那年夏天，无论是在卡梅尔还是在欧康，都有关于埃米莉夫人的书的无休止的讨论，而且经常当着我的面。和拉贾一样，罗莎琳德觉得要求艾米丽夫人不发表这篇文章是不公平的，但克林什说服了她，正如尼提亚所描述的那样，由于她与学校的关系，她在“过程”事件中所扮演的角色会给学校带来不良的宣传。她建议把自己的名字删掉，但觉得没有理由停止写这本书。出版日期定在秋天，拉贾收到了一套接近最后定稿的校样。

    Seeing the manuscript in this format seemed to snap Krishna out  of his detachment. He became actively opposed to publication at all,  which surprised both Rosalind and Raja. Krishna insisted on writing  his decision to Lady Emily, leaving no room for doubt as to his  objections. She cabled back in distress, explaining the intolerable cost  of withdrawal at this point and expressing shock at what she saw as  his sudden volte face. Krishna persisted with his conviction that the  book would do untold damage to him and his work and that no other  consideration was important. Lady Emily and Mary found this demand  so inconsistent with Krishna's attitude in London that they suspected it  was Raja's influence which had wrought the change. This was totally  erroneous and one more example of an inability in many people to place  responsibility on Krishna for those actions they saw as less than perfect.  Krishna could be extremely positive if not downright stubborn when  he wished to be, a side of himself that he rarely displayed. If Mary and  Lady Emily failed to get this impression in London, they are certainly  not to blame. The intentional vagueness that Krishna wielded as detached  influence too often caused confusion. 

看到这种格式的手稿，克里希纳似乎突然从他的超然中解脱出来。他开始积极反对出版，这让罗莎琳德和拉贾都感到惊讶。克里希纳坚持要把他的决定写信给爱米丽夫人，他的反对意见不容置疑。她痛苦地回了电报，解释了在这个时候撤退所要付出的难以忍受的代价，并对他突然变脸的表情表示震惊。克里希纳坚持他的信念，认为这本书会对他和他的工作造成无法估量的伤害，其他的考虑都不重要。爱米丽夫人和玛丽发现这一要求与克里希纳在伦敦的态度极不一致，她们怀疑是拉贾的影响造成了这种变化。这是完全错误的，这是许多人无法将他们认为不够完美的行为归咎于奎师那的又一个例子。当克里希纳愿意的时候，他可以表现得非常积极，如果不是完全固执的话，这是他很少表现出来的一面。如果玛丽和埃米莉夫人在伦敦没有得到这样的印象，那当然不能怪她们。奎师那有意的模糊，作为超然的影响，常常造成混乱。

    Raja disapproved of KWinc funds being used as financial recompense  for the d¨|bicle, reasoning that money collected for Krishna's work could  not ethically be used for such a purpose. Neither was he in agreement  with Krishna's attitude, but felt it was Krishna's responsiblity to work  it out with Lady Emily. Krishna magnanimously offered to pay off  the cancellation costs in monthly instalments out of his allowance from ~ Miss Dodge's trust. But Lady Emily declined to accept. Her family  ~ shouldered the financial burden alone. According to Mary the whole  ~incident added ten years to her mother's appearance. 
拉贾不同意将KWinc的资金用作代步车的经济补偿，理由是为克里希纳的工作筹集的资金在道德上不能用于这种目的。他也不同意克里希纳的态度，但觉得克里希纳有责任与埃米莉夫人解决问题。克里希纳宽宏大量地提出用他的津贴从道奇小姐的信托基金中按月分期支付取消费用。但爱米丽夫人拒绝接受。她的家人独自承担了经济负担。据玛丽说，整件事使她母亲显得老了十岁。

    -Towards Rosalind Krishna took on the role of a protective knight,  assuring her repeatedly while in Ojai, and later that autumn in his letters  from London, that he had done all this for her and that he would continue  to see that everything was right between them. He was more ardent  than ever in his pleas that nothing would ever come between them  and that what they had together was more important than anything.  He promised to make no more mistakes, to do no more thoughtless  things and that there was no diminishing of his love.  He ignored the fact that Rosalind did not feel very strongly one way or  the other about Candles, not even in so far as it affected her. He seemed  to feel that the whole incident had drawn them closer, perhaps because  he was for once in a position to protect her and to make her aware  of it. Perhaps he was also anxious, because of Nandini, that the first  occurrence of the ?(r)process', with Rosalind in 1922, be kept private. 
对于罗莎琳德，克里希纳扮演了一个保护骑士的角色，在欧康期间不断向她保证，后来在那年秋天从伦敦寄来的信中，他说他所做的一切都是为了她，他会继续确保他们之间一切正常。他比以往任何时候都更加热切地恳求说，什么也不能把他们分开，他们在一起的感情比什么都重要。他保证不再犯错误，不再做轻率的事，他的爱也不会减少。他忽略了罗莎琳德对蜡烛并没有什么强烈的感情，甚至对她也没有什么影响。他似乎觉得这整件事把他们拉近了，也许是因为他终于有机会保护她，让她意识到这一点。也许因为南迪尼的缘故，他也很担心，1922年与罗莎琳德第一次发生的“(r)过程”不能公开。

    Krishna must have sensed that Raja was withdrawing from him. The  controversy with Lady Emily had left new wounds between them,  wounds unheeded for the time being but which would flare up in the  near future. 
奎师那一定感觉到了拉贾正在离开他。与爱米丽夫人的争论在他们之间留下了新的伤口，这些伤口暂时没有被注意到，但在不久的将来会爆发出来。

    Back in London, Krishna did his best to comfort Lady Emily -to  the degree that once again she got the impression that he would not  have minded all that much if her book were after all published. But  on the same day that this meeting took place he wrote to Rosalind that  Candles would definitely not be published ever and that he had told Lady  Emily she must accept his decision, even to the extent of putting in her  will that 1t would never happen! 
回到伦敦后，克里希纳尽力安慰埃米莉夫人，以至于她再次觉得，如果她的书最终出版了，克里希纳也不会那么介意。但是就在这次会面的同一天，他给罗莎琳德写信说，《蜡烛》绝对不会出版了，他已经告诉爱米丽夫人，她必须接受他的决定，甚至在遗嘱中写道，这永远不会发生!

    Did Krishna himself believe he had settled the matter with Lady  Emily in the way he described to Rosalind? Would Lady Emily have  been shocked to have seen how casually, in his letter to Rosalind, he  treated her distress, always confident that he could sway her to his point  of view? Or was he aware of his inability to face any unplesantness; to  offer a straightforward ?(r)No' face to face? Lady Emily was not as taken  in as Krishna might have imagined. She may have been powerless to  take a stand against him, but she could be very clear-sighted. One day  she would write to Raja: ?°You have been the lamb on Krishna's altar.' 
克里希纳自己相信他已经按照他向罗莎琳德描述的方式解决了与爱米丽夫人的问题吗?如果埃米莉夫人看到他在给罗莎琳德的信中对待她的痛苦是那么随意，而且总是相信他能说服她同意他的观点，她会不会感到震惊呢?还是他意识到自己无力面对任何不愉快;提供一个直截了当的?(或)没有“面对面”?爱米丽夫人并没有像克里希纳想象的那样受骗。她也许无力反对他，但她可能非常有远见。有一天，她写信给拉贾:“你是奎师那祭坛上的羔羊。”

    -Before she died she went even further. She said she knew Krishna was  a congenital liar but that she would nevertheless always adore him. 
 在她去世之前，她走得更远。她说她知道克里希纳是个天生的骗子，但她仍然会永远崇拜他。
                   