24 India Revisited 再次访问印度
 
    For the past few years some of the happiest moments between Rosalind  and Krishna had revolved around Coco, the exceptionally intelligent  poodle which had come into their lives in her full maturity. Both  Krishna and Raja understood that the way to Rosalind's heart was  through her dog and in their letters they seldom failed to refer to Coco  with great affection. What Rosalind considered to be a love match had  occurred between Coco and a beautiful black poodle belonging to the  opera singer, Lotte Lehmann. The expectation of puppies had created  almost as much ofa flurry as Lady Emily's book and Krishna was deeply  disappointed that he must leave Ojai before their birth. His letters to  Rosalind from London and later from India were full of advice and  reminders for the care of the pregnant dog. Then in February 1955 he  received the following letter. 

在过去的几年里，罗莎琳德和克里希纳之间的一些最快乐的时刻都围绕着可可，这只非常聪明的贵宾犬在她完全成熟的时候进入了他们的生活。克里希纳和拉贾都明白，要抓住罗莎琳德的心，就要通过她的狗。在他们的信中，他们很少不深情地提到可可。在罗莎琳德看来，可可和歌剧演唱家洛特・莱曼(Lotte Lehmann)的一只漂亮的黑色贵宾犬之间发生了一场爱情比赛。对小狗的期待几乎和艾米丽夫人的书一样引起了骚动，克里希纳非常失望，因为他必须在他们出生前离开奥康。他从伦敦写信给罗莎琳德，后来又从印度写信给她，信中充满了照顾怀孕的狗的建议和提醒。1955年2月，他收到了下面这封信。

    Dear Krishnaji:  We have for you $1000.00 to be given to the Rishi Valley School. You  may wonder how [ am able to send you this amount. Will you please  tell the children in your school that I sold my children to raise the  money to give you as a token of my regard for you and for all you have  done for me such as walking, brushing, feeding and understanding  me. I think [ must correct the statement that all the money was given  for my puppies. There were actually some people who gave money  NOT to have a puppy! This I know you will find hard to understand  as [ do. Hardly anyone could see my beautiful black puppies without  longing for one. We have arranged it so you will see one when next  you are here, and you can even have one of my grandchildren. 

亲爱的克里希那吉:我们为你准备了1000美元，要捐给里希山谷学校。您也许会奇怪我怎么能给您汇这么多钱。请你告诉你学校的孩子们，我把我的孩子卖了，是为了筹钱给你，以表示我对你的关心，以及你为我所做的一切，比如走路、刷牙、喂饭和理解我。我想我必须更正我所说的所有的钱都给了我的小狗。实际上有些人给钱不养小狗!我知道你和我一样会觉得这很难理解。几乎没有人看到我漂亮的黑色小狗而不渴望一只。我们已经安排好了，这样你下次来的时候就能看到一个，你甚至可以有一个我的孙子。

    With a heart full of love as always,  coco [signed with an inked paw mark] 
    Krishna attributed both the letter and its sentiments to Rosalind. His  reply makes clear how deeply touched he was by her generosity to his  school and he closed the letter by telling her he loved her very much.  (Coco received no credit at all.) 

可可的心永远充满爱，可可的心永远充满爱。
克里希纳把这封信和它的情感都归因于罗莎琳德。他的回信清楚地表明，他被她对学校的慷慨所深深打动，他在信的结尾告诉她他非常爱她。(《可可》根本没有拿到任何学分。)

    Rosalind's dear friend Maria Huxley, died that same month. No one,  most of all Aldous, had realized how ill Maria was. She had brought  Aldous to visit us in Berkeley not long before and had even then  been on radiation treatments for cancer, which she most ill advisedly  suspended to take that trip. Her spirit masked whatever misery she  was undergoing until the very end. For Aldous's sake, she insisted  that everything be as usual. Rosalind had helped to bring Maria home  from the hospital two weeks before she died and had remained as close  to her as she could. After the funeral Aldous asked most unexpectedly  if he could come right up to Arya Vihara. Being with him those few  days was my first confrontation with such intense grief. We all, even  my mother, felt absolutely helpless in the face of it. 

罗莎琳德的好友玛丽亚・赫胥黎也在同月去世。没有人，尤其是奥多斯，意识到玛丽亚病得有多厉害。不久前，她带着奥多斯来伯克利看我们，那时她正在接受癌症的放射治疗，为了这次旅行，她非常不明智地暂停了放疗。她的精神掩盖了她所经历的痛苦，直到生命的最后一刻。看在奥多斯的份上，她坚持一切照旧。罗莎琳德在玛丽亚去世前两周帮忙把她从医院带回家，并尽可能地待在她身边。葬礼结束后，奥多斯非常意外地问他能不能直接去找艾莉亚・维哈拉。和他在一起的那几天是我第一次面对如此强烈的悲伤。面对这一切，我们所有人，甚至我母亲，都感到非常无助。

    Although Raja accompanied Krishna to Australia in 1955, he had no  desire to return to India. At Ojai he could live his own rather hermitic  life and go about his work without undue exposure to the annoying  aura of devotion that Krishna appeared to encourage in the country  of his birth. Rosalind, however, wished to see for herself the scene  around Krishna in India and once and for all sort out her feelings.  She left the Happy Valley School in the hands of her trusted Assistant  Director and flew to Australia to meet Krishna, while Raja returned  to Ojai. 

虽然拉贾在1955年陪同克里希纳去了澳大利亚，但他并不想回到印度。在奥康，他可以过着自己相当隐居的生活，从事自己的工作，而不会过度暴露在克里希纳似乎在他出生的国家鼓励的令人讨厌的奉献气氛中。然而，罗莎琳德却希望亲眼看看印度奎师那周围的情景，一劳永逸地理清自己的感情。她把欢乐谷学校交给了她信任的助理校长，飞到澳大利亚去见克里希纳，而拉贾则回到了奥康。

    She had not travelled abroad with Krishna since the 1930s. She had  forgotten what to expect. There was a large crowd to see them off from  Sydney, another to greet them in Djakarta during their brief layover to  Singapore; nothing of course like in his Theosophical era, but so much  more than in California. Fortunately at Singapore there was no reception  committee. They stayed at Raffles Hotel and were able for one day to be  ordinary tourists. At first Krishna balked at the idea of sightseeing but  ended up enjoying it thoroughly, like a small boy who had discovered  a new game. 

自20世纪30年代以来，她就没有和克里希纳一起出国旅行过。她忘了该期待什么。一大群人从悉尼为他们送行，另一群人在他们短暂停留新加坡期间在雅加达迎接他们;当然不像他的神智学时代，但比加州多得多。幸运的是在新加坡没有接待委员会。他们住在莱佛士酒店，可以做一天普通游客。起初，克里希纳对观光的想法犹豫不决，但最终却完全享受了，就像一个小男孩发现了一种新游戏。

    Rosalind's diary for those six months indicates that she had a very  interesting time, on which she reported at length for the benefit of the  school children back in Ojai. At Benares they were met by a crowd  from the school at Rajghat and taken to a beautiful house by the river.  It seems they were plunged right off into the school problems, to quote  from Rosalind's diary. 

罗莎琳德那六个月的日记表明，她度过了一段非常有趣的时光，她为奥康的学童们详细地报告了这段时光。在贝拿勒斯，拉杰哈特学校的一群人迎接他们，把他们带到河边一所漂亮的房子里。从罗莎琳德的日记中可以看出，他们似乎一下子就陷入了学校的问题中。

    Tues. Dec 6: Foundation talk, Rao upset, all upset, crisis for Foun- dation members to know what to do.  Wed. Dec 7: Foundation meeting. Gurtugi suggests closing upper  schools.  
 12月6日(星期二):基金会谈话，Rao心烦，所有心烦，危机让基金会成员知道该怎么做。12月7日星期三:基金会会议。Gurtugi建议关闭高中。

     On these visits to Krishna's school she was often appealed to by the  staff to help clarify what Krishna was saying and what he expected  of them. She had behind her nearly ten years' experience in directing  a school and was well aware of the psychological as well as of the  practical problems. On the one hand Krishna would ask her to help,  but he was impatient about her criticism of his habit of favouritism  and his failure to acknowledge the honest efforts of those who were  really keeping the school together. Rosalind could see that everyone in  the school hung on his every word, although Krishna often criticized  the staff for failing to understand his teachings. 

在这些访问奎师那的学校时，工作人员经常呼吁她帮助澄清奎师那在说什么，以及他对他们的期望。她有近十年的学校指导经验，对心理问题和实际问题都很清楚。一方面，克里希纳会请她帮忙，但她批评他有偏袒的习惯，批评他没有承认那些真正使学校团结起来的人的诚实努力，这让他很不耐烦。罗莎琳德看得出来，学校里的每个人都在认真听他说的每一句话，尽管克里希纳经常批评教职员工不理解他的教导。

    In Delhi Krishna and Rosalind stayed with Shiva Rao and his Austrian  wife Kitty. Shiva Rao, an early tutor of Krishna's at Adyar and Raja's  first tutor in Benares, had remained a lifelong friend of them both.  Rosalind also met many of Krishna's devotees and friends. She picked  up subtle innuendoes about the Mehta divorce incident but could divine  no actual facts. More and more, however, she sensed that Krishna had  been far from truthful with her. In addition to her personal hurt she  was concerned that Krishna might continue to be involved in scandalous  repercussions, but no amount of discussion with him would clarify the  issue for her. 
在德里，克里希纳和罗莎琳德与希瓦・拉奥和他的奥地利妻子凯蒂住在一起。希瓦・拉奥(Shiva Rao)是克里希纳在阿迪亚的早期导师，也是拉贾在贝拿勒斯的第一位导师，是他们两人一生的朋友。罗莎琳德还会见了许多奎师那的奉献者和朋友。她对梅塔离婚事件有一些微妙的暗示，但无法推断出实际情况。然而，她越来越感觉到奎师那对她远远不够诚实。除了她个人的伤害之外，她还担心克里希纳可能会继续卷入丑闻的影响中，但与他的讨论再多也无法澄清这个问题。

    In Delhi, Rosalind coaxed Krishna to go with her to visit Humayan's  tomb and the Qutub Minar. In a letter to Rosalind a few weeks later from  Madras, where Krishna had gone ahead, he told her it had been a beauti- ful day ⌒ he was glad they went together. And he added, as soon as she  saw all she wanted to see, he hoped she would hurry down to Madras and  they would again be together. He might have sensed that he was about  to become ill. By the time Rosalind arrived in Madras, Krishna was very  ill indeed. His talks had to be cancelled; Madhavachari was alarmed and  grateful that she was there to take over nursing him. This kind man who  was in charge of Krishna's household, talks, travels and general welfare  in India was almost in tears with frustration and anxiety for Krishna  was a difficult patient. Poor Madhavachari could not have foreseen the  future times he would be left with an ill Krishna. Rosalind developed a  great fondness for him during this stay. Later it upset her to see that,  while Krishna always went first class, usually by plane, Madhavachan  spent days on buses and overcrowded trains to save funds. 

在德里，罗莎琳德哄克里希纳和她一起去参观胡马扬的坟墓和库特布神庙。几个星期后，克里希纳从马德拉斯出发，在给罗莎琳德的一封信中，他告诉她那天天气很好，他很高兴他们一起去了。他还补充说，一旦她看到了她想看的一切，他希望她能赶紧去马德拉斯，他们就能再次在一起了。他可能已经感觉到自己快要生病了。罗莎琳德到达马德拉斯时，奎师那病得很重。他的会谈不得不取消;Madhavachari很吃惊，也很感激她能来照顾他。这位在印度负责克里希纳的家庭、谈话、旅行和一般福利的善良的人，几乎因为沮丧和焦虑而流泪，因为克里希纳是一个很难相处的病人。可怜的Madhavachari不可能预见到未来他将面对一个生病的奎师那。在这段时间里，罗莎琳德对他产生了极大的好感。后来，她沮丧地发现，克里希纳总是坐头等舱，通常是坐飞机，而马达哈瓦昌为了省钱，每天都坐公交车和拥挤的火车。

    Rosalind found brief occasions while nursing Krishna to visit Raja's  family. His mother was very touched that her American daughter-in- law turned up every day with a lotus blossom and played with her  great-grandchildren. 
罗莎琳德在照顾克里希纳的时候偶尔会去看望拉贾的家人。他的母亲很感动，因为她的美国媳妇每天都拿着一朵莲花来，和她的曾孙们一起玩耍。

    When Krishna was well, he and Rosalind went to Rishi Valley for  the month of February. There they encountered many of the same  problems as at Rajghat. There were teachers' meetings, discussions, or  Krishna's talks every day. Among others who complained to her was  Krishna's nephew, for whom Krishna had found work at the school  but who was not fitting in well with the others. There were charges  of nepotism. Eventually, this nephew would become the principal. 
当克里希纳身体好起来的时候，他和罗莎琳德去了利什山谷过二月。在那里，他们遇到了许多和在拉杰盖特一样的问题。每天都有教师会议、讨论或奎师那的演讲。向她抱怨的人中有克里希纳的侄子，克里希纳为他在学校找到了工作，但他和其他人相处得不太好。有人指责他任人唯亲。最终，这个侄子成为了校长。

    March was spent in Bombay, again with discussions or public talks  every day. Here, as had Raja, she found the numbers of devotees around  Krishna both surprising and disturbing and got the impression that he  did nothing to discourage it. She could not comprehend how Krishna  could put up with this intimate idolatry while he ate his breakfast,  dressed, and then had interviews or meetings before lunch. In Ojai he  was so protective of his privacy. In spite of his attendants in Bombay  he found time and oppeortunity not only to express his physical love  for Rosalind, but also to arrange for his friends to take her shopping  and sightseeing. He seemed most anxious that she enjoy this time in  India in every way possible. 
三月是在孟买度过的，每天都有讨论或公开演讲。在这里，和拉贾一样，她发现奎师那周围的奉献者数量既令人惊讶又令人不安，并且得到的印象是，他没有采取任何措施来阻止它。她无法理解克里希纳在吃早饭、穿衣服、午餐前参加面试或会议时，怎么能忍受这种亲密的偶像崇拜。在欧康，他非常保护自己的隐私。尽管他在孟买有随从，但他还是找到了时间和机会，不仅向罗莎琳德表达他的肉体之爱，而且还安排他的朋友带她购物和观光。他似乎非常渴望她尽可能享受在印度的这段时光。

    Rosalind had hoped that she would be able to meet Nandini and to feel  out for herself exactly what the situation was. However, Krishna told her  that Nandini was in samadhi (that cxalted and egoless state of liberation  in which Krishna himself had claimed to be long ago in Ojai), although  she believed Krishna had deliberately arranged Nandini's inaccessibility. 
罗莎琳德本来希望能见到南迪尼，亲自感受一下到底是什么情况。然而，奎师那告诉她，南迪尼处于三摩地(那是一种崇高而无我的解脱状态，奎师那自己也声称很久以前在欧海就处于这种状态)，尽管她相信是奎师那故意安排南迪尼无法接近的。

    Friends had planned a day's trip by plane to see the Ajanta and  Ellora caves. Rosalind had come down with a cold. Krishna felt they  should cancel the trip. But she was reluctant to cancel such elaborately  made plans and insisted on going, accompanied by two friends and a  somewhat reluctant Krishna. In the small unpressurized plane Rosalind  suffered excruciating pain in her.ear and was to learn later that her  eardrum had burst. It was an altogether unpleasant day. The happy  moments they had shared in the early weeks of this journey, sightseeing  and revisiting old haunts, suddenly seemed very distant. 
朋友们计划坐一天的飞机去看阿旃陀岩洞和埃洛拉岩洞。罗莎琳德患了感冒。克里希纳觉得他们应该取消这次旅行。但她不愿意取消这样精心制定的计划，坚持要去，同行的还有两个朋友和一位不太情愿的奎师那。在小的无压力飞机上，罗莎琳德忍受着剧痛。后来得知她的耳膜破裂了。这是非常不愉快的一天。他们在旅行的前几周共同度过的快乐时光，观光和重温故地，突然变得很遥远。

    Just before leaving Bombay, however, Rosalind did have one brief meeting with Nandini at one of Krishna's public talks. Rosalind sensed a reserve in her that could have been no more than natural shyness. 
然而，就在离开孟买之前，罗莎琳德确实在奎师那的一次公开演讲中与南迪尼有过一次简短的会面。罗莎琳德在她身上感觉到一种含蓄，这可能只是天生的害羞。

    Krishna deftly avoided giving them an opportunity to talk. Rosalind realized the tension that Krishna felt trying to keep his two lives apart. Yet the hospitality shown her by Nandini's sister Pupul, and the brief moment with Nandini herself confirmed Rosalind's belief that Krishna's ?(r)infatuation' had not been reciprocated. She had always regarded Nandini as an innocent figure in Krishna's deception. She could understand Krishna's attraction for this woman who was in   many ways an ideal Indian beauty. She realized also that the nature  of his relationship with Nandini, whatever it might be, was, to her, of  secondary importance. It was what Krishna felt in his heart as opposed  to what Rosalind considered the untruthful insistence that he loved only  her that she found unbearable. Her repeated confrontations begging him  to admit that their relationship was over and that he was interested in  someone else were futile and met only with stony silence on his part. 
奎师那巧妙地避免给他们说话的机会。罗莎琳德意识到克里希纳试图把他的两种生活分开的紧张。然而，南迪尼的妹妹Pupul对她的热情好客，以及与南迪尼本人的短暂会面，证实了罗莎琳德的信念，即克里希纳的“迷恋”并没有得到回报。她一直认为南迪尼在奎师那的骗局中是无辜的。她可以理解克里希纳对这个女人的吸引力，因为她在很多方面都是一个理想的印度美女。她也意识到，他和南迪尼的关系的性质，不管怎样，对她来说都是次要的。这是克里希纳内心的感受，而不是罗莎琳德认为的他只爱她的不真实的坚持，这让她无法忍受。她一再恳求他承认他们的关系已经结束，他对别人感兴趣，但都是徒劳的，他只是沉默不语。

    On the whole Rosalind had been happy on this trip, for she loved  India. But good as Krishna had been to her there, she was deeply  disturbed by the contradictions in his life: the devotees and adulation  which he appeared to enjoy on one side of the globe while decrying  them on the other. 
总的来说，罗莎琳德这次旅行是愉快的，因为她爱印度。但是，尽管克里希纳在那里对她很好，但他生活中的矛盾却使她深感不安:他在地球的一边享受着奉献者和奉承，而在地球的另一边却谴责他们。

    When Krishna and Rosalind arrived in Rome they were virtually  penniless. Raja had failed to get the money there for them that they  had expected. They were met by an old friend, Vanda Scaravelli, with  whom they both stayed. Thus the situation was not grave, as Raja  rcalized. but this oversight would be the beginning of much future  conflict between Krishna and Raja. 
当克里希纳和罗莎琳德到达罗马时，他们几乎身无分文。拉贾没能拿到他们期望的钱。他们的老朋友旺达・斯卡拉维利来接他们，两人都住在那里。因此，正如拉贾所认识到的那样，情况并不严重。但这种疏忽将成为奎师那和拉贾之间未来许多冲突的开始。

    Raja had always been the one to see to all the tiresome details in our  lives. When Krishna and Rosalind had a ?(r)bright idea' it was Raja who  had to implement it ⌒ arrange to buy the car, the cabin, the sending  of money to Krishna's schools and relatives in India. He had disliked  being referred to as Krishna's secretary or manager. He felt his true  responsibilities lay in the editing and publication of the teachings, the  organization necessary for travels and, along with Rosalind, seeing to  the well-being of Krishna. Raja's education would have enabled him to  have many careers, from professor at a university, to law or politics.  Neither he nor Rosalind had ever been devotees. They had both always  been scrupulously careful not to interfere in Krishna's inner life. They  tried to arrange for him the solitude and the simplicity of life that they  had always understood from him to be his requirement. 
拉贾总是负责处理我们生活中所有烦人的细节。当Krishna和Rosalind有了一个“好主意”时，Raja必须执行它，安排购买汽车，小屋，给Krishna的学校和印度的亲戚寄钱。他不喜欢被称为奎师那的秘书或经理。他觉得自己真正的责任在于编辑和出版教义，组织必要的旅行，并与罗莎琳德一起照顾奎师那的福祉。拉贾的教育使他能够从事多种职业，从大学教授到法律或政治。他和罗莎琳德都不是信徒。他们俩一向小心翼翼，不去干涉克里希纳的内心生活。他们一直从他那里了解到，这是他所需要的，他们试图为他安排独处和简朴的生活。

    During the best of their times together Krishna appreciated this  arrangement. He depended heavily on Raja's judgment, not only in  practical matters but also for his advice in the projection of his teachings.  On many mornings before his Sunday talks, he would appear at Raja's  door. They would spend a half-hour going over the questions that had  been sent to him. He seemed to find, in Raja's presence, a reassurance  that the words would come at the right moment. He used to describe  to me his fear that one day he would sit there in silence before the  audience with his mind empty. He never wanted to be with anyone  but my father before the talks. 
在他们在一起的最好时光里，奎师那欣赏这种安排。他非常依赖拉贾的判断，不仅在实际问题上，而且在他的教诲投射时也依赖拉贾的建议。在他周日谈话之前的许多个早晨，他都会出现在拉贾的门前。他们会花半个小时的时间来仔细检查交给他的问题。在拉贾的在场下，他似乎找到了一种保证，相信这些话会在恰当的时候说出来。他曾经向我描述过他的恐惧，害怕有一天他会在听众面前沉默地坐着，脑子里一片空白。在谈话之前，除了我父亲，他从来不想和任何人在一起。

    Leaving Krishna in Rome, Rosalind went to Paris for a week by  herself. Krishna wrote her a long letter summing up the past six months  together which he said, with a few exceptions, had been good. He said  it had been beneficial for her to see the many beautiful things she had  seen and the different cultures, as if she were a schoolgirl who had never  seen such things before. Again he implored her not to let superficial  agitation and emotionalism disturb the deep inner understanding and  love that was between them. But he misjudged the change of heart  that had finally taken place in Rosalind. 
把克里希纳留在罗马后，罗莎琳德独自去巴黎待了一个星期。克里希纳给她写了一封长信，总结了过去的六个月，他说，除了少数例外，一切都很好。他说，这对她来说是有益的，因为她看到了许多美丽的东西和不同的文化，就好像她是一个从未见过这些东西的女学生。他再次恳求她不要让表面的躁动和情绪化干扰了他们之间内心深处的理解和爱。但是他错误地判断了罗莎琳德最终发生的改变。

    She met both Krishna and Raja in Stockholm. Here one day walking  alone with Raja by a canal, she told him that she did not want Krishna to  return to America. She wanted to be completely free of him, for a while  atleast. Her school work demanded she remain in Ojai, but Krishna could  live elsewhere just as well. Her emotions, which had been ricocheting  for the past five years between her lingering love for Krishna and her  increasing suspicions of his feelings, finally pushed her into throwing  out this bombshell, which much later even she would see as irrational  and somewhat outrageous. Perhaps she was moved by an increasing con- sciousness of her own individuality, now that she had a separate life with  the school. Perhaps part of the cause was her discomfort in continuing to  live a secret life with Krishna while taking on a role which demanded a  new concern for reputation. Before the school she had seen discretion as  a necessity for Krishna rather than herself. Besides it is one thing to take  risks for a happy love affair and quite another for one that is faltering. 
她在斯德哥尔摩见到了克里希纳和拉贾。有一天，她和拉贾独自走在运河边，她告诉他，她不想让克里希纳回到美国。她想完全摆脱他，至少有一段时间。她的学校作业要求她留在奥康，但克里希纳也可以住在其他地方。在过去的五年里，她的情绪一直在她对克里希纳挥之不去的爱和对他的感情越来越多的怀疑之间波动，最终迫使她抛出了这个重磅炸弹，很久以后连她自己都觉得这是不理智的，有点离谱的。也许是由于她在学校里过着独立的生活，对自己个性的意识日益增强而感动了她。也许部分原因是她对继续与克里希纳过着秘密生活感到不安，同时又承担了一个需要关注声誉的新角色。在上学之前，她认为谨慎是奎师那而不是她自己所必需的。此外，为一段幸福的爱情冒险是一回事，为一段摇摇欲坠的爱情冒险则完全是另一回事。

    Raja was caught in this conflict. It involved him, of course, as long as  he was connected with Krishna. He felt Rosalind was being unreasonable  in her demand, even though he understood her emotional state. But  surprisingly Krishna agreed not to return to California. 
拉贾也卷入了这场冲突。当然，只要他与奎师那有联系，他就会参与其中。他觉得罗莎琳德的要求是不合理的，尽管他理解她的情绪状态。但令人惊讶的是，克里希纳同意不回加州。

    Howevet co-operative Krishna appeared to be at the time, there  would be later repercussions that would fall on Raja's rather than on  Rosalind's head. But judging from Krishna's letters to her immediately  after, when she had returned to California, one wonders if he had taken  Rosalind seriously at all or if he were just certain this mood would  pass and that the love between them was ultimately inviolable. He  wrote as though nothing had changed, asked after Coco, the school,  and imagining how happy and excited everyone must have been on  her return. He repeatedly assured her that she had his love as always  and that only when one has lost love do things go wrong. 
无论克里希纳当时表现得多么合作，后来的影响都落在了拉贾的头上，而不是罗莎琳德的头上。但是，从克里希纳在罗莎琳德回到加州后立即给她写的信来看，人们怀疑他是否真的把罗莎琳德当回事，或者他只是确信这种情绪会过去，他们之间的爱最终是不可侵犯的。他写信时，好像一切都没有改变，询问可可和学校的情况，想象着她回来时每个人都是多么高兴和兴奋。他一再向她保证，她一如既往地爱着他，只有当一个人失去了爱，事情才会变得糟糕。

    Mr Robbie died in Ojai that June of 1956. He was eighty-two and had  suffered several strokes. He had wanted to go for a long time. One afternoon at his weekly tea party under the pergola behind Saro Vihara  my mother was trying to cheer him by getting him to recite poetry.  She said, how wonderful it must be to have so many beautiful verses  in his head. He replied, nothing mattered any more, that he had been  waiting ever since Sara died to die himself. It was difficult for Rosalind  to be philosophical about Mr Robbie's death. It was a great loss. 
罗比先生于1956年6月在欧康去世。他八十二岁，曾多次中风。他早就想去了。一天下午，在他每周一次的茶会上，在萨罗・维哈拉后面的凉棚下，我母亲试图让他背诵诗歌来鼓舞他。她说:“他的脑子里有这么多美丽的诗句，那该有多好啊!”他回答说，什么都不重要了，自从萨拉死后，他就一直在等着自己去死。罗莎琳德很难冷静地看待罗比先生的死。这是一个巨大的损失。

    Robert had left Rosalind enough of his estate to make her financially  independent for life. This was something Sara and he had agreed to do  years before, but it was unexpected and unlooked for by Rosalind. 
 罗伯特给罗莎琳德留下了足够的财产，使她终生经济独立。这是萨拉和他多年前就同意做的事情，但这是罗莎琳德没有预料到的。