 25 Exiled 

    Jimmy and I were still in graduate school at Berkeley in 1956. He  was working for a PhD in mathematics and I was for an MA in  comparative literature. My father felt that a few summer months  in Europe would be good for us and he gave us the trip. As our  minds were very taken up with our studies while bringing up two  small children, he also asked Willie to make the arrangements for  us through a local travel agent. My mother offered to take care of  our two children. My family continued to be very supportive in our  life, but we had not been much involved in theirs for the past few  years, witnessing only occasional conflicts on our rare visits to Ojai  and in the summers at Carmel. All three of them had visited us - but not all at once. When Krinsh and my mother came to the Bay  area together, he stayed with us and she in a hotel as we had a very  small house. Krinsh showed an affectionate interest in our children  and even babysat a few times, although this appeared to exhaust him  and he would complain that American children were too well fed and  hence too energetic. Sometimes we went to a good Italian restaurant  in San Francisco, but the food never matched, in Krinsh's opinion,  that of a Roman meal. Once we took him to a class on semantics  by Professor Hayakawa, which Jimmy and I were attending. Krinsh  made disparaging remarks afterwards, saying Hayakawa was shallow  and unoriginal, but he was struck with some of the metaphors and  repeated them later, for example, making the map (psychologically)  fit the territory. 
    When my father visited we had a very good time with him, going  out to restaurants and the cinema in San Francisco and having dinner  with old friends like Blanche Matthias. I could see a new weariness in him, but he was quite cheerful around us and enjoyed the children.  My mother, if she came alone, usually urged us to go off on a little  trip by ourselves and leave her with her grandchildren. Perhaps some  ~ contrary reflection from her own marriage had convinced her that it  was important for young couples to have some time to themselves. 

    She was more than generous, considering her busy life, in providing  us with these occasions. 

    In July, Jimmy and [ flew to Copenhagen, where my father was waiting  to greet us and launch us on our first grand tour of Europe. We did not  know that Krinsh was waiting for us in Holland in order to spend a few  days with us and accompany us back to Paris. Not until many years  later, when I read his sad account to my mother of how we had never  even called and he had missed us in Holland altogether, did I realize  how badly the communication had broken down between him and my  father. It was not an intentional oversight on Raja's part. He had been  dissatisfied with the arrangments made for us by the travel agent and  had spent a lot of time in Copenhagen re-arranging our trip. Krishna  was simply not on his mind at that moment. But this was in itself a  new attitude. 

    By the time we met both Krinsh and my father in Paris, the path  was smooth and there was a harmonious tone between them and their  old friends, who did everything to make our stay there memorable. We  were ensconced in a French Air Force General's apartment in the Ecole  Militaire. A private military car and driver were put at our disposal.  The General and his wife were followers of Krinsh. Mima was in town  and we had lovely dinners with her, full of reminiscences of old times Ал  better and happier times, no doubt, for Krinsh and my father. Yet there  was a lot of gaiety and once more [ felt surrounded by that strong aura  of love that [ had known all my life. I could not have guessed how frail  were the bonds that were holding them all together. 

    I had a slight touch of flu and Krinsh sat with me in the General's  apartment trying to pull the fever out of my feet, as he had when I was  a child. He was distressed that I should miss any time at all seeing Paris,  but he spent the afternoon with me wanting to hear about Mr Robbie's  death; the last sad weeks when he could no longer speak or leave his  bed, the last quiet moments with my mother there to hold his hand. 

    ?(r)Poor Robert,?А└ Krinsh said, ?(r)he hated to be pushed around and wanted  to go.?А└ By this he meant pushed around in a wheelchair. Mr Robbie  was one person to whom Krinsh had never shown anything but deep  respect, even behind his back. 

    Another friend of his and my father's, Nadia Sednaoui, a beautiful Egyptian girl, showed us the special jewels of Paris like the Chapelle de St Louis. Neither Krinsh nor my father would sight- see, although they were both adamant that we should see everything worthwhile. 

    We parted company in Paris, Jimmy and I off to Switzerland for  a few days' driving about on our own, Krinsh to spend the rest of  the summer with friends in the Dordogne, and my father to Rome.  By the time we joined him there he was again low in spirits and in  health as though he had depleted the small reserve of happiness and  vitality that had welled up those few days in Paris. Vanda Scaravelli,  a person who would become very dear to both Jimmy and me, as  she had been for years to my family, showed us all over Rome and  then Assisi, Venice and Florence while my father spent most of the  time confined to his hotel room. This was a pattern in his behaviour  which was not totally unfamiliar. He had never been one of the crowd.  Through all the excursions and holidays of my youth he had gone his  own secluded way. 

    In Krishna's letters to Rosalind during the next year he appeared to  accept her wish to be free of him, at the same time maintaining that  his feelings for her had not changed. From India, he described a second  trip to the Qutub Minar which he had visited with her two years before.  The Qutub is a high iron pillar built of non-rusting iron. It was placed  on its present site in AD 1052 but is thought to be two millennia old.  It is the setting that is beautiful amid the rolling hills south of Delhi.  There is a strong nostalgia in Krishna's words for the time they had  gone there together and he wrote that she was with him too this second  time. It is clear that he was not willing to let Rosalind slip out of his  life. His needs had always been strong and complex and up until now  she had filled them. It was against her nature to deprive anyone of care  that she could provide. Krishna knew her very well, but he was not in  tune with the slow change within her. He was aware that the different  aspects of his personality could cause serious problems. He also relied on  the infallible force of his own words. He believed that to tell Rosalind he  still loved her was enough, whatever actions of his might persuade her  to the contrary. On the other hand she had come to feel that ?(r)actions  speak louder than words'. 

    If Rosalind had found the exile of Krishna from Ojai a satisfactory, if     temporary, solution, Raja had not. He still could not come to terms with his own position in the now fractured triangle. It had been one thing to forgive their intimacy, but now Rosalind's stand to free herself from Krishna had created a new problem. Arya Vihara was Krishna's home and he had every right to be there whenever he wished. Raja could not agree with Rosalind's request that Krishna stay away, yet he understood her feelings and his affection and sympathy for her were unwavering in spite of everything. He knew there must be some changes in his life,  that he could no longer play a personal role with Krishna, a mixture  of nursemaid and manager. He felt it was incumbent on him to sort  out a problem which was not initially of his making. 

    In the spring Raja again set off for Europe. Rosalind had persuaded  him to fly rather than take the boat, as he had always preferred to do.  With her characteristic practicality, she had even advised him where to  sit on the plane. One can see his state of mind from the few letters he  wrote to her after his arrival in Europe. 

    Have been quite laid out by the happenings before I left & feel very weary Ал but shall see what's going to happen Ал This is a miserable letter but will send it just to let you know I got here alright, tho' very tired. Am very concerned about you -all the time. 
    Love, 
    R. 

    Raja was supposed to meet Krishna Ал returning from six months in  India, in Rome, but communications had again broken down, as Raja  complained to Rosalind. 

    There has been no letter or sign of anything from India. I have no idea of the situation or what 1s happening. Have you had any news from Bombay since I left Ojai? The situation is still the same in my mind and I don't yet know clearly how to set about it. 
    I hope all is well with you and the burden is lightening in some way. Please send some news soon. 
    All my love, dear, 
    R 

    Elaborate arrangements had been made for Krishna to talk throughout  Europe that summer. However, when Raja met him in Rome at the  end of March whatever transpired between them resulted in all talks  throughout the world being cancelled for the next year. Krishna gave  his 11l health as the grounds for this abrupt change of plans. The health  of all three of them was certainly suffering from the conflicts arising  among them. Krishna may have felt exhausted, but he could not exist  for long without talking. It is also unlikely that Raja wanted the  talks cancelled after he had gone to so much trouble to make the  arrangements. Although one may infer from Raja's letter to Rosalind  that he was seriously looking for a way to withdraw personally from Krishna, that he had not heard from Krishna for some time had greatly  irritated him as there were always many questions about Krishna's plans  needing answers. In writing to Rosalind Krishna expressed relief that the  talks were cancelled. He said he was going to write to no one except  her and Raja and would take a complete rest ?(r)good for the body and  the mind'. 

    Whatever talks he had with Krishna in Europe did not resolve Raja's  problems as to his ongoing relationship with Krishna and the work: 

    I am feeling a little better, but of course the various problems have  not been even tackled yet. Hope you are all right and not totally  exhausted. I am sure the rest at Carmel will do you good. I may  come there for a few days while you are there . . . 

    All my love, dearest Rosalind,  RAJA 

    Raja was still torn between his sense of responsibility towards Krishna  and his own need to get his head above water. Since the affair between  Krishna and Rosalind had been revealed to Raja six years before, there  had been no clear redefinition of any of their relationships. Krishna had  never even discussed this with Raja, as he had promised Rosalind he  would do. This in itself hurt Raja, for he felt the act of disloyalty to  him had been Krishna's not Rosalind's. Raja, being unafraid of any  human being, underestimated Krishna's fear of him, this fear being the  probable basis of much of Krishna's behaviour, especially that involving  deceptions, as years ago Krishna himself had admitted to Rosalind. But  perhaps Raja's most serious difficulty was that in spite of everything,  he still had a deep affection for Krishna and he still could not realize, or  accept, the.possibility that Krishna had none for him, if indeed he had  ever had. It was this more than anything that would ultimately make  it difficult for Raja to free himself. 

    Krishna had begun to complain to Rosalind more and more about  his own health, and about the conflicts between him and Raja. He said  he would not return to Ojai until they both asked him and added he  was definitely getting old and could not stand all this. 

    Yet there was one last interlude of companionship between the two  men. They went for a few days to Gstaad, Switzerland, which would later be a summer centre for Krishna. One can infer much by the fact  ~ that Raja made the effort to take long walks with Krishna every day;  -walks which must have relieved the sessions of talking that filled the rest  -of their time. One of these walks ended in the rain with the two ageing men slipping and sliding down a muddy path to see a lake, huddled  together, arm in arm under Raja's umbrella. 

    Krishna seemed saddened by the gradual realization that their lives  were pulling apart. He still reaffirmed his love for Rosalind. He told  her he loved her and meant this with all his heart and he begged her  to believe it. He admitted he had not made it all easy but reminded  her, as he had said before, that she would have to forgive. He prayed  everything would be all right, that everything ugly would be wiped  away between them and that there would be peace and love. That was  foremost, he said, and repeated that she was loved with all his heart  and then asked for blessings on them all. 

    According to Krishna's letters to Rosalind, Raja and he appeared to  have ended their talks amicably even if in Raja's mind many issues were  still left hanging. Yet from this time on Krishna started a campaign to  discredit Raja in a way so subtle that no one would understand just what  was taking place. In order to understand one would have to see that  his claims against Raja were false. Krishna had a surprising and largely  unsuspected talent for long-range planning. He had demonstrated this  talent in acquiring the schools in India from the Theosophical Society  and on another level, in preparing himself all summer for those final  treks in Sequoia. 

    Just after Raja's departure from Switzerland, Krishna wrote to Rosalind  that he had gone into town to cash cheques for his train trip and the  hotel bill. He made no mention of a shortage of funds which he  surely would have done had that been the case. Yet when he was  met by his hosts with whom he would again stay in the Dordogne,  he complained that Raja had left him penniless with barely enough  to pay the hotel bill. It would be several more years before Raja  would comprehend the growing criticism of him, fanned by these  deceptions, among most of his friends and associates throughout the  world. 

    The summer of 1957, spent in Ojai, seems to have been relatively  calm for Raja. Probably because for most of it he was alone. Rosalind  was making it her habit to spend the summers in Carmel. But Raja's  health was still bad and he hoped to get a check up at the Bircher-Benner  clinic in Zurich before returning to India with Krishna in the autumn.  That Krishna had little concern for Raja's problem was soon evident. 

    Dearest Rosalind,  [ am writing this from Amsterdam and I telephoned Krishnaji from  Hamburg. It was most distressing. He seems to be very anxious to go immediately back to India, even though I indicated to him that  would like to [spend] two weeks in the clinic in Zurich. 

    So we are going on the 6th. I think things are not as they should be. It is no use bothering you with all that. You have your own worries and | hope all 1s going well with you. 
    I shall do what I can for the best of all of us in India. T hope I shall be able to get back to California as soon as possible. 
    With much love, 
    Yours, 
    R 

    Contrary to the impression that Krishna was beginning to promote  of being manocuvred by a wilful man, it had always been and still  was typical that Raja deferred to Krishna's wishes, even when it was  difficult for him to do so. Krishna often acted as though he didn't  care what he did or where he went, but anyone at all tuned in to  him could easily discern his preferences and Raja had always gone to  great pains to be sensitive to them. He tried to find people with whom  Krishna would be happy to stay, as hotels were distasteful to him.  He arranged for first-class air travel while he himself went economy.  There was very little that was done without Krishna's endorsement,  yet Raja's overtly secretive nature, his insistence on running KWinc  in a very private manner between him and Krishna and two or three  trusted individuals, eventually made him an easy prey to charges of  domination. 

    Krishna did not intimate to Rosalind that there was any friction  between him and Raja and they set off apparently on good terms for  India, but there all the excuses and explanations about Nandini began  once again Rosalind had not asked for these reports and indeed was  not interested in them any longer. She had given up hope long ago of  hearing the truth and now preferred to hear nothing at all. 

    She sent Raja a list of people, mostly relatives of Krishna whom she  had met in 1956 whom she proposed to help financially. As soon as she  inherited from Mr Robbie Rosalind began to think of ways to give away  her money. She would never feel comfortable with money and would  always continue to spend very little on herself. She sent a sizeable sum  to Raja's family as well and to some pecople associated with Krishna's  schools. This generosity was to be implemented by Raja, although he  questioned the wisdom of some of it. 

    On this, his fmal trip to India, Raja was spending a minimum of  time with Krishna. Raja's mother would die soon after and he would not return again. She had been an important reason for his visits, but  he had never enjoyed staying long in India. 

    He had turned over the European arrangements for talks and travel to  Doris Pratt in the London office. He was still taking responsibility for  the publications and the overall financial management, but had provided  the London office with sums for Krishna's use in different countries. 

    Rosalind, who had never intended to be Director of the Happy Valley  School for so many years, had once again started a search for a new  Director. When Krishna heard of this he reacted vehemently: although  she had, he wrote, been saying that there must be a new Director,  fortunately that evil hour has so far been postponed. He thought it  would be a calamity if another Director took her place. Why should  he care? Unless he had indeed seen Rosalind as his pipeline of influence  in the school. 

    In January 1958 Raja left Krishna in India, and resolved to do  something about his health. The resolve seemed to bring him a fleeting  lightening of spirits and sense of optimism: 

    Dearest Rosalind, 
    As you know, I wanted to go to some Clinic somewhere to see really what is what with me, and I have decided to go to Bircher-Benner Clinic for a few days, and maybe for a few weeks. 
    I shall be returning to Ojai the latter part of March. I do not at all like the 1dea of being in a wretched Clinic but I guess I will do it Ал not so much for my own sake but for everybody else's sake. 
    On the whole everything is well with me in a strange new way. 
    With much love, 
    RAJA 

    But everything was not so well with Krishna in India. He still reported  the details of his life regularly to Rosalind, giving exacting and reassuring  accounts of his visits to Pupul and Nandini. He perhaps did not realize  that she was never to read these letters carefully, sometimes not at all.  She was impatient and busy. The school was becoming too much for  her and she was not succeeding in finding her replacement. In spite of  Krishna's admonitions she was still trying to do so. 

    Krishna, suddenly showing exasperation, asserted that he would not report on his activities with Nandini, that it was absurd and silly to do so. He also alleged that his letters might be opened for blackmail purposes and therefore he would henceforth write more discreetly. 

    When he went for the summer to the hill station of Ranikhet, his  letters, however, resumed their loving tone. He spent four months  there in relative isolation, from which he seemed to benefit emotionally  and spiritually. 

    Raja found at the clinic that his oesophagus problem was mechanical  and incurable without surgery, so he decided to ?(r)lump it and put up  with the discomfort'. He remained in America for the next two and a  half years. While he had no conflict with Rosalind, there was no more  harmony between them than there had ever been. She had buried the  shock of Krishna's disloyalty under her work. That she had intentionally  distanced herself from Krishna did not mean that she wanted to get closer  to Raja, not closer than she had been for these past twenty-five years.  They were no more temperamentally suited than they had ever been.  But a deep and affectionate friendship still remained between them. 

    Raja was still very involved with Harper & Row, editing and pub- lishing books from Krishna's talks and from his notebooks. Krishna  still showed no interest in being personally involved with all this,  and seemed glad enough for Raja to continue this work. Krishna had  decided a few years before to resign altogether from KWilnc, perhaps  as part of a short-lived impulse toward total retirement. Throughout  the years Raja had suggested that Krishna settle down somewhere and  let people come to him, but Krishna had disdained the idea. Now his  faltering health prompted him in this direction, but after the months  of isolation at Ranikhet, a part ot him longed for a return to activity. 

    As Krishna was remaining in India for so long and quite out of  touch, Raja had asked him to sign a document to facilitate the financial  arrangements that were part of the contracts with Harper's and the  European publishers. This document, stated in writing no more than  had always been the implicit and often expressed understanding between  them. It was only necessary now as Raja was dealing with outsiders.  While he complied readily at the time, later Krishna would read a  wholly imaginary, sinister implication in this request, or allow others  to convince him of one. 

    When Rosalind had been at the Rishi Valley School two years before,  she had already noted the increasing dissension between Krishna and  the headmaster, Mr Pearce. Krishna was undercutting his influence in  the school by appointing people of his choice over Pearce's head. At  last Pearce resigned and Krishna reported to Rosalind that there was  a lot of misery and upset in the school over this. His letter sounded as  though it were all more ofa problem that Krishna could cope with. 

    Pearce retired from Rishi Valley to Ootacamund, where he started the Blue Mountain School. His wife told us sixteen years later that Krishna  had broken her husband's heart by manoeuvring him out of the Rishi  Valley School and he had not lived long thereafter. 

    Krishna also lost a very old friend that winter, one who went back  to his and Nitya's youth. Ratansi, with whom he usually stayed in  Bombay, died unexpectedly ofa heart attack. Intensifying these events  was the heat, fiercely increasing after the middle of March. Krishna  wanted to get away from India, from the problems and from everyone;  but Madhavachari recommended that he rest in Kashmir instead of going  all the way to Europe. It was often hard for Indians to understand just  how Westernized Krishna was and how he yearned for that other culture  when cut off from it for too long. But he acquiesced and agreed to remain  in India. In his letters to Rosalind there are frequent nostalgic references  to Ojai, wondering if the valley was green and beautiful; life in India  was becoming increasingly tiresome for him. But he would remain  there for another year on top of the year and a half he had already  stayed, his longest sojourn there since he had left in 1911. Neither had  he ever been away from Ojai and from Rosalind for so long a time in  thirty-seven years. 