
                         26 
    A Moratorium 
    In Ojai, Raja and Rosalind, for a time brought closer by their common 
    problems, now seemed pulled apart by them. Their relationship was 
    becoming more and more strained, in part because they did not agree 
    on how to deal with Krishna, although they both wished to withdraw 
    from his orbit. 
    It was in this atmosphere that Raja fell in love, almost against his own 
    wishes. Annalisa Beghe was living in the Saro Vihara house, which 
    Rosalind had inherited from Mr Robbie, and was assisting Rosalind in 
    the school. Annalisa and Rosalind were friends. One day on a walk, in 
    the spring of 1959, Annalisa turned impulsively to Rosalind and said, 
    ?(r)Raja and I are in love.?¡À If Rosalind received a shock she gave no sign 
    of it at the moment. 
    ?(r)1 am so glad if he has someone special to love him,'?¡À she replied. 
    Rosalind was well aware that Raja had been very much alone for the past 
    twenty-eight years. The friendship between her and Annalisa continued. 
    There were frequent dinners 4 trois when they discussed their situation, 
    often with bursts of ironic humour. At least, in this relationship, 
    everything was out in the open. But Raja was very hesitant to embark 
    on another marriage. ?(r)Why should I jump out of the frying pan into 
    -the fire??¡À he,said to me one day while visiting us in Berkeley.  His attraction to Annalisa was understandable. She had never cared for  -Krishna personally although she was interested in his teachings. When  -she had first seen them both many years ago, before being introduced  -she had thought, ?(r)Raja should be standing in Krishna's shoes.?¡À She was  -Swiss-Italian, twenty-five years younger than Raja, beautiful and very  ?¡ã feminine, also willing to show deference to him in a way Rosalind with  her strong American independence could not have done.  I realized that my parents had never in my memory had a true  marriage. | was not disturbed by this new attachment in my father's  ife. But I was disturbed by my mother's frequent depression during 
    hese years. I did not know then about the distress she had gone  hrough over Krishna's disloyalty. Partly due to her own design she 
    267      now had to make a life independent of the two men whose focus had  been exclusively hers for so many years. And Coco, who had been her  most loyal and loving companion, died that winter. 
    Raja too seemed more and more depressed; sometimes Annalisa  would appear on Rosalind's doorstep in tears, asking for advice on  how to help him. Rosalind was sufficiently alarmed by Raja's state of  mind to write Krishna a letter of distress, appealing to him to come to  Ojai immediately. 
    Krishna replied giving a string of specious reasons as to why he could  not oblige. These ranged from lack of funds to the difficulties involved  in procuring a visa, but he ended with a more credible objection; until  he heard from Raja, as well, that they both wanted him to return, he  would not do so. It was obvious that he had no wish to become involved  in their present crisis. He warned Rosalind not to do anything ?(r)drastic  or irrevocable'. 
    Shortly after sending this letter, Krishna fell seriously ill. When he  had recovered enough to travel he made plans to go to the Bircher- Benner clinic and then communicated with Raja about returning to  California. His 1illness had shaken him and he wrote to Rosalind that  the whole organism was rapidly disintegrating. However, this morbid  alarm disappeared on his return to Ojai. Rosalind was determined that  the disputes and unhappiness between them all must be resolved no  matter what course their future might take, together or apart. It was her  nature to want this and she could not accept its impossibility. She still  thought she had some influence on Krishna. Krishna on the other hand  was upset by Raja's intention to move away from Arya Vihara. It was  often difficult to understand why Krishna so vehemently disapproved  of certain things. Why should he care where Raja lived? He must have  realized that without Raja's presence at Arya Vihara, it would be difficult  for him and Rosalind to remain there alone together. Raja, for all those  years had unwittingly provided them with an umbrella of propriety.  Krishna was not yet ready to re-organize his life. 
    After lengthy discussions between the three of them, Annalisa keeping  well out of it, Rosalind asked that they have a moratorium until the  following year, during which time they would all agree to the following:  there would be no more recriminations between any of them. The three  of them would get along and leave everything alone ¡Ð no changes would  be made until they met the following summer. They would write  every two weeks and discuss all plans together. But, most important,  Krishna would agree not to give any large public lectures until the year  was out.! 
    268  
 
                   
A Moratorium 
    Rosalind was not the first to recommend that Krishna lead a less  public life. Many years before, Mme de Manziarly had told him bluntly  that he should stop travelling all over the world in high style and settle  down quietly in one place, letting those who wanted to hear him come  to him. Krishna had taken offence at that suggestion and he ignored  her after that. When she died, he did not send his condolences to her  daughters, although it was she he had called on long ago to take care  of Nitya when he was so ill.2 It is most likely that Krishna found it  easier to agree to and then ignore Rosalind's proposals than to argue  with her. 
    Much as he had taken pains to give Rosalind the impression that he  was protecting her interests in stopping publication of Lady Emily's  book, he now made a great point of another issue; an issue which he  created. This time Raja was the unmentioned but obvious object from  whom Krishna wished to protect her. He wrote Rosalind a formal  letter stating that Arya Vihara, from the very beginning, belonged  to all three of them (and to Radha). Since Raja now had his own  home (he had bought a house adjacent to the Vigevenos at the other  end of the valley), Krishna wished to put into writing that whatever  the circumstances in the future, Arya Vihara was to be the home of  Rosalind and of Radha for their lifetime. He urged also that Rosalind  never abandon and leave that property. He took the trouble to give a  copy of this statement to Louis and Erma and asked them to witness  that it was his wish. Rosalind was naturally puzzled by this insistence,  as she was justifiably confident that no one connected with KWing,  least of all Raja, would expect her to leave and, if they had, she would  not have greatly minded. Krishna was evidently assuming that Raja's  involvement with Annalisa had alienated him from Rosalind and from  her best interests, or else he was deliberately driving a wedge between  them. 
    Krishna apparently regained much of his health and strength during 
    the six months he was in Ojai. Rosalind had always known how to 
    take care of him; and he had seldom been 1ll with her except for the 
    one serious attack of nephritis in 1946. 
    From the first letter he wrote after his departure, Rosalind had every 
    reason to feel assured that Krishna had taken the moratorium seriously 
    and had agreed to her request about his talking in India. He promised he 
    would follow in letter and spirit what they all agreed to. He also said he 
    had written to Madhavachari to arrange only limited discussions and no 
    public talks in India. He reminded Rosalind that her part of the bargain 
    was to stay at Arya Vihara, although that had not been part of the 
    269  
 
                      moratorium agreement. He reiterated his concern that the school must  remain the work of the Happy Valley Foundation and that Rosalind  must be the co-ordinator and spirit behind it. He cautioned her not to  allow experts, specialists and super organisers to swamp her. 
    His letters were now on a three-day instead of daily schedule. He  explained that he did the same thing every day and it was boring to  repeat. This was in no way a new circumstance. He complained that  communications with Raja were still bad and he was not receiving  replies about plans. Within a month the limited discussion groups had  increased from sixty to a hundred; by the next month to two hundred  packed in like sardines. Krishna was becoming annoyed by the terms  of the moratorium. 
    Meanwhile Raja had cabled Krishna in India saying he could no  longer arrange for the European gatherings and had turned over the  management to Miss Pratt in the London office. 
    The summer had taken its toll on Raja. He would never again throw  off the dej¡§|ction he had almost dispelled two years before. In the late  autumn of 1960 he left for Europe, deeply depressed, for six months on  his own, purposeless and at a loss as to what to do with his personal  life. He wrote to Rosalind: 
    Zurich Dec 6, 60  Since I arrived here I have not been able to sleep at all nights, but  as I am doing nothing, and know no one here, it has not mattered.  I shall get adjusted to this coming away for no particular reason but  to have a change. 
    To the above letter he received an affectionate response from Rosalind,  who gave a rare admission of what she too had been through. 
    It was nice to have your letter & to know that you remembered your  promise. 
    It has been a very busy time with the school, holidays & family  otherwise I w'ld have answered it sooner. I feel that I can just barely  survive as [ am constantly harassed by a strange dizziness . . . I need a  little more breathing space ¡Ð a little more time as these last years have  been a tremendous shock and strain. I will feel better to know that  you are doing everything possible to get things right for yourself&  let us hope that we meet in June in a good way. Always with dearest  love and wishing you all the best, 
    ROSALIND  
 
                         A Moratorium 
    But after four months in Europe Raja showed only a promise of  improvement. He wrote to Rosalind what would turn out to be the  last letter she ever received from him. 
    Geneva April 3, 61 
    Dear Rosalind, 
    I have not felt like writing to anyone, anywhere and I am afraid  I am forgetting how to write. There has been no news, I have been  existing and trying not to think about anything or anybody. Hope  I shall get a true perspective someday soon ¡Ð 
    But [ am glad to have been completely alone & away from my 
    grooved life of 40 years nearly ¡Ð & am hoping for the best.  How have you been, needless to ask, for you are not going to  write & tell me the news.  Anyway I do hope you have had a complete rest from certain  things & are feeling happy & well.  Shall let you know when I arrive in N.Y.,  Love,  R 
    Rosalind made the serious mistake of trying to change the date when  they had all agreed, according to the moratorium, to meet in Ojai. She  had forgotten how demanding the final weeks of school could be. It did  not matter to Raja whether it was 15 or 30 June, as she now preferred.  Krishna, on the other hand, who in the end had not heeded the terms  of the moratorium at all and had made extensive plans for public talks  in Europe reacted with an outrage Rosalind had never felt from him.  He said he was not coming to hang around till she was ready, that she  had work to do and so did he. Rosalind compromised quickly by cable  with an earlier date. 
    When they all met at Ojai in that summer of 1961 the moratorium  had solved nothing. Krishna was mostly interested in getting his teeth  fixed. Raja had resolved none of his problems. He did not yet know  that Krishna had begun entrenching himself with others who would  eventually help him in a fight against Raja. Krishna picked his new  circle very astutely for this purpose. But the time was not yet ripe  and he was avoiding an open break. Krishna was then confident that  Rosalind would never side with Raja against him. 
    For her part Rosalind wanted to be free of them both. She was weary  and as depressed as she had ever been in her life. She did not want  a divorce. However, she felt a divorce was right for Raja. As she 
    271  
 
                   
 
    was categorically unable and unwilling to say anything against Raja,  wishing to claim only incompatibility as grounds, it was necessary to  get a Mexican divorce. This she did smoothly enough through a lawyer  in Carmel. Raja and Annalisa were now free to marry. But this would  not free Raja from the complex web around Krishna. 
    272  