
                         27 
    A House Divided 
    That summer of 1961 Jimmy and I and our two children moved to  Santa Barbara, where we had just bought a house. Jimmy had joined  the Mathematics Department of the University of California at Santa  Barbara. We were so busy remodelling our house and settling in that  we did not fully comprehend the gravity of my family's situation. Aside  from a few unhappy scenes, we were not involved with the discussions  that summer, except one which I remember vividly, although I was  puzzled by it at the time. Just before he returned to Europe, on 6  July, Krinsh came over to Santa Barbara with my mother. I was in  the middle of painting our bedroom and they urged me not to stop  while they kept me company. Krinsh seemed to enjoy the lovely  view from our window of the mountains. But the amount of work  remaining still to do dismayed him. My mother had swept up a pile  of plaster chippings left on the floor and then sat quietly on the bed. 
    Krinsh remained standing. I could feel his restlessness. 
    Suddenly he said, ?(r)Kittums I want you to clearly understand that  Arya Vihara is to be Rosalind's home for her life and yours too.' 
    ?(r)Thank you for including me, Krinsh, but we have just bought this  house and hope to stay here for a long time. Besides we cannot live in  Ojai. Jimmy's work is here.' 
    ?(r)Just remember what I am saying, Kittums. If Rosalind should ever  leave Arya Vihara I will not return to Ojai again.?¡À Even then that seemed  to me an empty threat, and rather pointless. I could not understand his  urgency. It was not clear to me until later that he had convinced himself  my father would try to push her out. He still saw himself and Rosalind  as united against Raja. 
    Krishna wrote to her, just after he left Ojai, that during his last night 
    there he awoke feeling a sense of cruel oppression, intrigue. Possibly 
    he was suggesting that Raja had been taken over by the black forces. 
    This attitude would circulate among his new friends in the near future, 
    much as Wedgwood had claimed to have seen the ?(r)black magician' in 
    Krishna when he started to withdraw from Theosophy. 
    273  
 
                   
 
   
    More and more Krishna refused to discuss anything with Raja, while  claiming that it was Raja who would not answer his letters or talk to him.  It is true that Raja's personality had become more abrasive. In addition  to his disillusionment with Krishna there were new corrosions in what  he had thought were old and loyal friendships. Even Erma and Louis  had shown a new coolness toward him. In their case, though Raja did  not realize it, this was due to his marriage with Annalisa. No matter  how graciously Rosalind had accepted this marriage, Erma was torn  between her deep and affectionate friendship with Raja and her loyalty  to Rosalind. Although Rosalind did not admit even to herself such a  reaction, Erma was convinced that her sister's pride had been hurt by  Raja's new marriage and she felt a protective sense of indignation. She  was ignorant of Rosalind's long affair with Krishna and would remain  so until her death, therefore she did not have a true perspective on  Raja's actions. But where other people were concerned, there is no  doubt that Krishna's insinuations and subtle casting of doubt about  Raja's performance and motives had eroded many of his relationships.  For the past few years another problem had developed. An Indian doctor  had suggested that a small drink of Scotch every day would ease the pain  in Raja's oesophagus. India was a dry country and obtaining alcohol  was no easy matter. Krishna managed to arrange a permit through his  influential friends. He soon found that Raja was much easier to live  with after an afternoon drink. This drink had became a habit, kept  in moderate control. But it only added fuel to the rounds of criticism  already turned against Raja. With a balanced diet that excluded alcohol,  Annalisa succeeded in improving Raja's physical health. He continued  to be depressed, however, as he began seriously to question the worth  of his life's work. 
    At times, Rosalind still felt compelled to step between Krishna and  Raja to try to keep communications open, and to jolt Krishna into  secking a reconciliation with Raja. This was a vain expectation; neither  persuasion nor warnings would succeed. 
    In his insistence that Rosalind be given a lifetime interest in Arya  Vihara, Krishna was pursuing an issue that meant very little to either  Raja or Rosalind. Rosalind was entertaining hopes of one day living up  on Happy Valley. Memories of happier days at Arya Vihara were not  foremost in her mind. 
    Six weeks later Rosalind received a copy of a letter that Krishna had 
    written to Raja. He stated that he would never come back to Ojai if 
    Rosalind left Arya Vihara, that if anyone should leave it was he and 
    Raja and not her. He suggested that Arya Vihara now be given outright 
    274  
 
                         A House Divided 
    to Rosalind and after the death of Radha be returned to KWinc. He  demanded that Raja find some legal way to arrange this. 
    Raja tried to explain that a non-profit foundation could not give away  property to an individual. A few years later, his solution, honestly  based on what appeared to be Krishna's wishes, and one that met  with Rosalind's approval was to give the house to the Happy Valley  Foundation, of which Rosalind was a member, for her lifetime use.  This would anger Krishna. Krishna may have sincerely felt that Rosalind  needed his protection in her divorced state and that he was standing by  her against Raja. But he would remain adamant that it should not be  given to a foundation in which he had no part. 
    Since its inception, Krishna had kept himself aloof from the Happy  Valley Foundation, now he suddenly plunged himself into the affairs of  both the foundation and the school. He wrote a formal letter to Louis  Zalk as the President, stating that Dr Besant had intended that the  teachings be the major purpose of the foundation and that the school  had been established to ?(r)express these teachings as much and as deeply  as possible'. He said that during his last stay in Ojai he had noticed that  the school had wandered away from this purpose and that it must be  guided back on to the course for which it was intended or it would  slip into the wrong hands. He claimed to have to have heard this also  from various parents and from James Vigeveno, a Happy Valley board  member. James Vigeveno had been a devoted follower of Krishna since  the early Ommen days. He was in a difficult position, trying to represent  Krishna's wishes to Raja and now to the Happy Valley Board. 
    Since 1946, when the school was founded, Krishna had deliberately  remained in the background and had refused to have his name used  officially. Rosalind had often asked him to attend the board meetings,  to speak at assemblies, and, in short, to be as involved as he wished to be;  however, one thing he would never tolerate was sharing the limelight  with anyone. There were many luminaries now involved peripherally  and within the school, actualizing the basic principle that there should  be no single exclusive influence. The first thing in the morning there  were readings from a selection of philosophical works, suggested in  part by Aldous, followed by silence and music. In sports, emphasis was  on exercise rather than competition, and to discourage a competitive  attitude no grades were given out to the students, just written reports.  This policy stemmed from the educator, Edward Yeomans, as well as  Krishna's teachings, and was intrinsic to the spirit of the school. 
    Krishna's memory, as stated in his letter to Louis Zalk, of the founding  of Happy Valley and of the school is faulty at best and false in some 
    275      cases. While Annie Besant saw a strong link between the Happy Valley  and the world teacher, she did not consider the future development of  Happy Valley as a base for his teachings exclusively but rather as a  simultaneous flowering of the physical aspect of a spiritual ideal. He  himself backed away from her ideal. She-had paid him back for the  land when he moved his campsite to the lower valley and he had never  in all the years since uttered a hint that he felt future developments on  Happy Valley would be connected to him. When he wrote ostensibly  in impersonal terms of ?(r)the teachings', meaning of course his teachings,  he was assuming that these should be included in the sustaining fabric  of the school, and they were. In his letters to Rosalind through the  years, he had urged her to speak to the children regularly and to keep  a firm hand on the school, feeling confident that through her his ideas  would flow. Among these ideas was one that she took very seriously;  there should be no authority. 
    If his intentions were quite harmless, one can only wonder why in  1960, during the sixth months that he was in Ojai, when he was still  acting as if he were on close terms with Rosalind, he did not once try  to give suggestions to her directly. Why did he work behind her back  through James Vigeveno? Why didn't he come to her with the criticism  he heard from parents? And why did he wait for three years, after his  observations of the alleged shortcomings, to present his criticism? Louis  Zalk answered this letter with considerable finesse, while pointing out  certain clearly erroneous statements in Krishna's letter. This whole  incident would be the beginning of Louis's personal disillusionment  with Krishna. 
    19 August, 1963  Dear Krishnaji: 
    [ have been associated with the Foundation from its very beginning,  notably during the first bleak fifteen years or more. It was a dead piece  of land until Rosalind, with unstinting effort and devotion, began the  school some seventeen years ago. We all know the extent of the great  effort she has put into it. You, of course, were present and were a  very great help indeed. 
    I sincerely believe . . . that the only difference between James  [Vigeveno] and me [is] in the method of bringing your teaching to  bear in our school program so that it fully permeates our educational  plan. Now who among the nearby critics of the school has the creative  energy ¡Ð sense of dedication and capacity ¡Ð to properly present your  teaching to pupils? I must ask the question, ?(r)Would there not be a 
    276  
 
                         A House Divided 
    great confusion which would seriously jeopardize our present school  and fail of creating a school in harmony with your ideas?' Frankly, we  are short of teachers who, if they have understanding of your ideas,  could convey that understanding to the pupils who come to us. Can  they awaken Truth in the pupils without first making assertions and  generalizations? The present school is Rosalind's very life. To destroy  it is to destroy her. Do we really wish this to happen? Knowing the  goal of our school to be in harmony with your ideas, I cannot aid  and abet that which would mark her destruction. In my long and  reasonably successful business career, I have found that enthusiasm  is not always accompanied by the capacity to devise channels for  creative action. | have had the priceless privilege of listening to  your ideas for something like 35 years and have not varied in my  appreciation of their everlasting significance. In this background I  suggest most earnestly and urgently when you are here next year  that we have the privilege of discussing with you definite steps we  can take to improve our methods. We would like to have a direct  contact with you and not through interpreters and intermediaries,  however sincere they may be . . . 
    With much love,  LOUIS ZALK 
    Louis was soon to find, as Raja had already found, that this was  much too direct an approach to Krishna, who preferred to deal through  interpreters and intermediaries rather than involve himselfin debates. 
    Krishna's response to Louis was evasive about when he would return  to Ojai and made no reference at all to his letter that had stirred up so  much commotion. Rosalind had responded in her own way, insisting  that Krishna either explain his criticism precisely or withdraw it. She  was indignant that he had gone behind her back and discussed with  members of the Happy Valley Board, as well as parents in the school,  criticisms and proposals that he could have discussed with her. She  felt he should know well enough from experience in his own Indian  schools how easily an atmosphere of rebelliousness can sweep through  a school and how difficult it is to quell it. She was convinced that he  had now turned on her, as he had on Raja, and was using the school as  a route of attack. Krishna responded with innocent denial that he had  ever intended any criticism of her or the school and was only trying  to be helpful. 
    Louis and Erma used to come to us for dinner in Santa Barbara  every Monday night. During these visits he would sit and talk about 
    277  
 
                      the strange twist the path around Krishna had taken. Louis cast forth  no judgments, but his kindly face was shadowed with bewilderment as  to how a person could reach such heights in what he said and spread  such confusion by his actions. He was also beset with problems in his  own business. : 
    ?(r)When your house is on fire, don't worry about the tiger in your  kitchen,' he said. He wrote to Krishna: 
    30 October, 1963  Dear Krishnaji,  I have heard quite definitely from James Vigeveno with reference  to the School. 
    I have been going through a very very difficult year in my personal  affairs, in the effort to free myself from associations in the business  world. These have been trying and painful ¡Ð and my strength has  been seriously depleted. 
    Under these circumstances Rosalind -and Jim and Radha have  strongly urged that I let Rosalind discuss all matters of any nature  brought up by James [Vigeveno] to relieve me of that much nervous  strain. 
    Rosalind has been in association with you for over forty years ¡Ð  and I am sure she has knowledge of your viewpoint and ideas in  Education ¡Ð and can serve in this matter much better than I. I do  hope dear Krishnaji that you will understand. 
    Always with love and appreciation of you ¡Ð  LOUIS 
    In spite of his denials, Krishna had worked very hard on James  Vigeveno and had chosen him as his emissary to both Raja and the  Happy Valley Foundation. This well-meaning and honest man would  have his eyes rudely opened before long. 
    The past year had been a sad one for Rosalind in other ways than her  distress about Krishna's interference in the school. John Ingelman had  died in February. And on 22 November 1963 Aldous died. After Maria's  death nearly nine years before, Aldous had come to be a close friend and  was still a frequent visitor at Arya Vihara. Rosalind had encouraged him  to give his first series of university lectures at Santa Barbara in 1959. 
    He had modestly protested, ?(r)I am not a speaker, Rosalind, T am a  writer.?¡À But she was so convinced by the one talk he had given at a  Happy Valley School graduation that she continued to urge him. Before  long he was offered more engagements than he could possibly meet. 
    278  
 
                   
A House Divided 
    One day he phoned us quite unexpectedly from the Santa Barbara  airport. 
    ?(r)Radha, this is Aldous,?¡À as if anyone could fail to recognize that  beautiful voice! ?(r)I have been invited to the Center for Democratic  Studies, but no one has shown up to meet me.' 
    Before driving him to the Center, we took him home for tea and a  walk, which he always enjoyed as much as Krinsh did. I noticed that  some buttons were missing on his tweed jacket. 
    ?(r)Yes,?¡À he said, ?(r)my sewing isn't very effective.?¡À There wasn't a trace  of complaint in his voice, but [ couldn't help feeling a deep sense of  loss that Maria was no longer there as I tried to match the buttons  and sew them on firmly. Maria had been an excellent mender and 1  had heard her comment quite unfavourably about young women of  today who would throw out a good sock rather than pick up a needle  and mend it. 
    Whenever we went to Los Angeles, we made it a point to see  Aldous. He sometimes came for a simple lunch in the little Neutra  flat on Gower street. We had never got to know Laura, his second  wife, well. We realized very quickly that this marriage was entirely  different from his first. Maria had taken total and exacting care of  Aldous, always driving him herself, except on rare occasions when a  trusted friend filled in. Now Aldous took buses and planes around the  country from MIT to Berkeley by himself, staying in rooming houses  or small hotels and opening a can of beans for his dinner. While this  independence may have given him an appearance of new youthfulness,  he was actually fatally ill. In the flat in Hollywood on one of our last  times with Aldous he remarked on the strained relationship between  Krinsh and my father and wondered with the kindest sort of interest  what was going wrong. I could not tell him much then, but he said he  hoped my father would not feel himself to be the target of the trouble.  Aldous did not live to see how much of a target Raja would become. 
    In October Aldous was felled by the cancer which he had known for 
    some time afflicted him. It had started as a lump on his tongue. By the 
    time he considered an operation it would have meant losing his speech. 
    Both he and Laura shunned this maiming. It might or might not have 
    saved his life. The alternative treatments had not sufficed to stop the 
    malignancy; he suffered great pain as the disease moved into his larynx 
    and spine. Rosalind went to see him very often towards the end and 
    rubbed his feet as he told her that brought him more relief than anything 
    else. She had just returned to Ojai when she awoke the next morning and 
    felt strongly that she must go back to Aldous. She got in the car and was 
    279      driving over the Conejo pass on the six-lane freeway into Los Angeles  when suddenly she saw herself surrounded by white light and could not  see the cars or the highway. She assumed she had been in an accident and  that this was what death was like, but then the light faded. She drove on,  so intent on reaching Aldous that she thought no more about it. 
    Aldous and Laura had been living with a friend in the Hollywood  hills since their house, with all his papers, had burned down in 1961.  That morning when Rosalind arrived, Laura rushed up to her, saying  that Aldous was dying. There was some commotion about setting up an  oxygen tank and while waiting in another room, Rosalind heard about  the assassination of John F. Kennedy but did not take it in, even when  the doctor said not to tell Aldous about the President. Aldous could  still talk clearly when she first saw him, but was very restless. When  she offered to rub his feet he said he would prefer it on his tummy.  By early afternoon he could not talk any more but could write on a  pad. Soon after he was too weak to drink water and by late afternoon  he was in a coma. When Laura asked if she should give him LSD, the  doctor murmured to Rosalind that it didn't make any difference what  she did as Aldous was too far gone. 
    When Maria was dying Aldous had whispered in her ear until the last,  knowing that the hearing is the last sense to go. The words he used in his  novel Island give a close description of those final moments. Rosalind  attempted to use the same words as well as she could recall them. 
    Think of those lights and shadows on the sea, those blue spaces 
    between the clouds. Think of them, and then let go of your thinking. 
    Let go of it, so that the not-Thought can come through. Things into 
    Emptiness. 
    Emptiness into Suchness. Suchness into things again, into your 
    own mind . . . Let go now, let go . . . go on into the Light, into 
    the peace, into the living peace of the Clear Light . . .1 
    Rosalind found the end ?(r)strangely quiet, peaceful and beautiful. One  was completely uplifted and full of awe and love ¡Ð no tears'.2 
    It was not until that evening when she drove down to Hollywood  Boulevard that she saw the headlines. President Kennedy had been  shot, strangely enough, just when she had been enveloped in the light.  Typically she never connected these two occurrences until it was pointed  out to her. 
    Since Raja had married Annalisa, Rosalind had kept entirely out of  his life. Her relationship with Krishna was becoming tenuous, with 
    280  
 
                         A House Divided 
    increasingly infrequent communications between them. He still  professed not to understand what he had done to upset her and  Louis. 
    As Jimmy was on the Happy Valley Foundation Board in 1964, he and  [ undertook to clarify the issue. We were planning to spend the summer  on an extensive drive through southern Europe and were delighted to  include a visit to Krinsh on our itinerary. He was staying at the Chalet  Tanneg in Gstaad where he stayed every summer, thanks to Vanda  Scaravelli's generosity. It was a lovely spot on a hill overlooking the  valley with a winding road leading up from the town. Krinsh was alone  in the house when we arrived in our new Volkswagen with our two  children. Although Vanda was away, he had arranged with her that we  could stay there. He helped us in with the luggage, graciously showed  us our rooms right next to his, and offered us some tea. After three  years' absence from him, his hospitality made me feel a little less than  family but soon his old affectionate ways returned and everything felt  very much as it always had, though the style of life was quite different  from any [ had ever seen him in before. There was a shiny new Mercedes  in the garage. Vanda had set up the kitchen with a cook and butler from  Rome; the butler wore white gloves to serve an incredibly good meal at a  formally set table. The whole set-up was extremely posh, much more so  than the style in which Vanda herself lived in either Rome or Florence.  Yet the formality did not extend to Krinsh's attitude towards us and  certainly not to our behaviour. Our ten-and eleven-year-old children  were made to feel perfectly at home and he seemed to take real delight  in listening to them and watching them unwind after a long day in  the car. 
    The very first evening, after the children were in bed, we launched  into our mission. We explained how much distress his criticism of the  school had caused, what a controversy had been created among the  students, the teachers and the feelings that had been fomented against  my mother. Krinsh looked genuinely stricken. 
    ?(r)Kittums, 1 wrote that letter only to help her, it was not intended  in any way to do her harm.?¡À He grasped my knee and shook it as he  frequently did when making a point. 
    ?(r)I shall write and straighten it all out now that I understand the  problem,' he promised. 
    There was nothing we had told him that Rosalind had not already  written him in letters and communicated to him over the phone, but  we felt reassured that he did now understand, for he explained that he  never intended that the Happy Valley should be identified with the name 
    281  
 
                             of Krishnamurti and emphasized that the Happy Valley was a separate  legal body from KWInc and that he had no intention of interfering with  it in any way. 
    The next morning, with the issue of the Happy Valley Foundation  settled, Krinsh proposed we all take a drive and enjoy some of the  local scenery. He guided us to Diablerets, where we rode on the ski  lift across a valley, green as California could never be green. I thought  of Villars long ago, when we had gone for early morning walks as  the cows headed for pasture, the sound of cowbells, Krinsh rubbing  his hair in the pine needles. His face then had been full of laughter,  his smile radiant. I looked at his face now. It was slightly puffed with  allergy. His mouth did not smile fully, even when he laughed. There  was a distance in him, his eyes were not quiet. I felt he was not ?(r)living  in the moment' as he always had advocated. But suddenly a small brown  furry creature scuttled between two rocks below. There was a flash of  animation, a gleam of the old joy that had enriched so many moments  in my childhood. ?(r)A marmot,' he said. 
    We only stayed three days and each morning after breakfast we went  to his room to talk. On the last morning Krinsh said with intense feeling  that it was all wrong that my parents had divorced. ?(r)That divorce should  never have happened,?¡À he said, grasping and shaking my knee again for  emphasis. I could not understand why he should care so much about  that one relatively small disaster in the face of the overall situation. I  could not see how, at this point, it would change anything for him  one way or the other. But he strongly disagreed. ?(r)We must all remain  together. It is the way it has always been and must stay like that.' 
    I told him I thought that was hopeless, that they had all now gone  their own ways and perhaps for the best. 
    ?(r)Don't you see?' he insisted. ?(r)It is all one thing. The KWinc and the  Happy Valley.?¡À I could not finally make out whether he was really  talking about the two foundations, or the three individuals, or whether  in his mind it really was all the same. Every time I tried to clarify what  was being said he looked despairing and said I did not understand - which was all too true. He then shifted to another subject, although  actually closely related. 
    ?(r)They say Mrs Beghe is quite mad,?¡À he said with a sardonic smile I 
    knew well. He had avoided using her given name or referring to her 
    as Raja's wife. 
    ?(r)Who are ?¡ãthey??¡À' I asked. 
    ?(r)People who know her have told me that.' 
    ?(r)Well, it's not true. If anyone in this whole mess is mad it is certainly 
    282  
 
                         A House Divided 
    not Annalisa.' I did not know her very well, but well enough to defend  her without doubt on this point. 
    He moved from this to my father, and here I was on less sure ground,  for I had not been a witness to many of the incidents in the past few  years. 
    ?(r)Do you know ¡Ð he has not given me any money? I had to beg from  Signora Vanda to pay my doctor's bill in Rome.'  I had no answer to this and the subject was dropped. I started to  describe the trip we were taking and he became more and more 
    concerned, feeling it would be exhausting to drive all the way to  Greece.  ?(r)Why don't you put the car on a ferry in Trieste instead?'  ?(r)We can't afford that; it is cheaper to drive.' 
    With this he jumped up from the bed on which we were both sitting,  went to a drawer and came toward me with a wad of American Express  cheques. 
    ?(r)Here, Kittums, is three thousand dollars, take it.'  ?(r)Where did you get it?' I asked.  ?(r)Rajagopal sent it.'  ?(r)Then why not use it to pay your doctor's bills?'  This did not throw him in the least and he answered without hesi- tation, 
    ?(r)I can't. It's for something else.' 
    I did not consider this a very satisfactory explanation, but realized  there was no point in continuing the conversation. I could hardly have  guessed then that nearly twenty years later I would be repeating this  conversation under oath. Nor did I know then that Raja had acceded  to his request for $50,000 to buy land in Saanen (a village near Gstaad)  for the summer talks. A few years later a much greater sum, close to a  million dollars, would be asked of Raja to build an elaborate hall. This  Raja would refuse, not only because he was restricted by tax laws,  a factor Krishna refused to comprehend, but because he well knew  Krishna's penchant for wanting to build: halls, schools, places where  he could be housed without the stigma of personal ownership, but  which required unending management and upkeep. Raja was coming  to feel it was time for all this to stop. He certainly wanted no more  property to worry about. 
    On 1 September 1964, after eighteen years and in spite of Krishna's  insistent advice, Rosalind resigned as Director of the Happy Valley  School. She felt she had found a very competent person to take over 
    283  
 
                   
 
   
    and she was exhausted by the past years of emotional turmoil. On  29 November Louis Zalk died, leaving Rosalind on the front line of  the Happy Valley Foundation. There was no one to replace Louis' and  Robert's financial support of both the school and the foundation. The  endowment Robert had left had not been large and had been put into  the physical plant. Louis's endowment was tied into a private trust  which gave only limited sums each year. Erma continued to contribute  as much as she could, but the burden of making ends meet now rested  with Rosalind. 
    In a sense it was fortunate that she had this weighty responsibility  which she had already sustained for many years. Her life was her own  and still very full. Because of her work she would emerge intact from  the breakdown of her two closest relationships. She would in time  regain some, but never all, of her radiant optimism and sense of fun. 
    284  
 
 