
                         28 
    A New Circle in the Shadow 
    Two years passed before we saw Krinsh again. In the summer of  1966, Jimmy and I exchanged our house in Santa Barbara for a friend's  house in a small French village near Dreux. From there we drove  to Gstaad, where once more we were invited to stay at the Chalet  Tanegg. 
    That year we met some of what would be Krinsh's new circle,  although we did not realize their importance then. He also had another  new Mercedes since 1964, given to him by a rich admirer. ?(r)Don't tell  Rajagopal,' he said. Then spontaneously he asked 1f we would like to  have it; an offer as impractical to implement as it was generous. I could  see he was caught between the onerous discomfort of ownership and  the joy of possession. 
    We were on easy enough terms with Krinsh's new friends and even  teased one of them about having to use Krinsh's brand of soap and  toothpaste. This was a familiar story to me, for I had seen since  childhood that Krinsh wanted those close to him to use whatever  product he was at the moment sold on. One day two large suitcases  were brought by one of the secretaries from the London office. They  contained silk monogrammed shirts and ties from Savile Row; sets for  Krishna and for his new favourite. I had from that moment the intuition  that this association would lead to trouble, but whose trouble I did not  then guess. I did suggest to Krishna that it was going a bit far to dictate  the toothpaste a person should use, but he told me very sternly to keep  out of it. 
    While he failed to credit Raja with having provided the purchase  money for the Saanen land, he made plenty of ado about his refusal  to send funds for other purposes. He had not directly asked Raja to  provide his new helper's salary, but used Doris Pratt's intervention.  Raja, perhaps to Krishna's surprise, agreed to this salary as well as  expenses; however, when the next request came for a lifetime annuity  for this present ?(r)favourite', Raja reminded Krishna of the many loyal,  long-time friends who had worked steadfastly over the years: were they 
    285  
 
                   
 
    to be overlooked in favour of such a newcomer? Krinsh used this refusal  as an example of his financial ordeal with Raja. But I was fortunately,  for once, aware of the logic behind Raja's decision; a decision which  would prove fortunate for Krinsh, though he never gave Raja credit  for it. In due course, the newcomer would be banished from the new  circle for reasons not made public, though there were those who felt he  had been harshly treated. I felt compelled to warn Krinsh again, in spite  of his severity toward me over the toothpaste issue, that in my opinion  such an intimate appearing association could create an unfavourable  impression. Instead of scolding me as I expected for such a mundane  expression of respectability, so contrary to my upbringing, he did not  express either a positive or negative response, but instead answered that  he was aware of complications. From what he said, it seemed likely that  there would be a bit of reshuffling before the new circle took its final  shape. 
    Krinsh's young yoga teacher, Desikachar, was there too. Vanda had  been put to some embarrassment over the switch in yoga teachers.  Desikachar's uncle, the famous lyengar, had been the teacher every  summer and expected this to continue. Krishna had found lyengar  too rough and without notifying Vanda had arranged for Desikachar  to come over from India °– leaving Vanda the difficult task of explaining  to lyengar. 
    It was not altogether a pleasant visit for me. It had become too obvious  that there was intense hostility toward my father. I was used to quarrels  between him and Krinsh, but neither of them had ever discussed the  other with me. Krinsh now made innuendoes which were worse than  outright accusations because in arguing against innuendoes I found they  took on a concrete value whether right or wrong which made them all  the more difficult to dispel. 
    Krinsh had changed even more since our previous visit. He had always  loved to tell jokes at mealtimes, mostly culled from the Reader's Digest.  He had a very strong social commitment to be the entertaining host.  But now he seemed withdrawn, his eyes veiled not only by the long  straight lashes but by an inner abstraction. The rest of us carried on  easily together. One day Krinsh observed us all laughing heartily and  commented a trifle caustically, ?(r)American humour, [ see,?°¿ as though he  were quite unable to understand it. 
    One day on a walk with Krinsh on the hillside above Chalet Tanegg,  suddenly asked him why he still talked after nearly forty years of saying  very much the same thing.  ?(r)If everyone took you literally, listened carefully, and took in what you 
    286  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    are saying, they needn't come back unless they want to be followers and  you say you don't want followers. What would happen if your audience,  by really listening to you, disappeared?' 
    ?(r)That is a paradox,' he answered in a moment of open candour. ?(r)I  speak to live, I do not live to speak, if there were no more talks I  would die.' 
    No wonder then, I thought, that he needed more and more, rather  than less and less of an audience. The older and frailer he became, the  more he would feel that he must have a life sustained by listeners.  Thousands of them. He would travel round and round the world,  exerting all the strength and energy he had that it might be renewed  as fast as it was spent. 
    We returned to California more than a month ahead of Krinsh, who  would be bringing his new circle with him to Ojai. I had reported the  conversations and events during our stay in Gstaad to my father as fully  as possible. He was interested in our impressions but as usual offered no  side comments. I think he was withholding judgment about Krishna's  new associates. He could not have had the faintest idea of what, in the  end, his relationship with them would be. 
    Krishna was now insisting on being re-instated on KWinc and would  ask that his new associates be put on also. He suddenly wanted to assume  full responsibility for KWiInc's activities. Although Krishna had been  an original member, he had soon resigned, saying he preferred to  leave that end of the work completely to Raja. Thereafter Krishna  had never shown the slightest interest in KWInc, any more than he  had in its predecessor, the Star Publishing Trust, which had served  the same purpose. Both had been established to handle organizational  and publishing affairs. Raja's role in the work had always been clear  to him apd, until now, Krishna had given every indication that it was  clear to him in the same way. As Raja saw it, he was not working  for Krishna. It was because of his promise to Nitya to stand by  Krishna, and Mrs Besant's request that he help in the work, that  Raja had undertaken this life-long commitment: a commitment that  would enable Raja to fulfil much, but not all, of his inherent potential,  by employing both his financial acumen and his literary skills. Raja  considered KWInc, which he had created, the funds which he had raised  for it and managed, and all the publishing were his responsibility in a  venture centred around, but not run by, Krishna. This arrangement  was fully clear to Krishna all along, if not to the world at large. He  had never expressed the slightest criticism of any aspect of Raja's  performance. 
    287      Krishna had always enjoyed acquiring land and building on it. He  did not like to stay around and manage this material side of his affairs,  however. Over the years Raja had expertly organized and maintained  all the properties for Krishna's use as well as helping with the schools  in India. He could not see the justification for acquiring yet more  property for which he no longer felt up to taking responsibility. He  knew from experience that Krishna would not do so. Now Krishna  was again in a mood to expand. He still wanted a centre in Saanen  and would eventually acquire a costly estate in England, which would  be used for a school. Perhaps the war years at Ojai had been too  simple and too confined a way of life for him. That way of life had  been appropriate to the time but was not in Krishna's natural style, as  both my parents had discovered in India and as I had seen for myself in  Gstaad. Raja, however, would not sympathize with these extravagant  plans, nor would he co-operate. In the past, Krishna might have felt  he could persuade Raja to his way of thinking, but now, because  of Raja's knowledge of his long affair with Rosalind, Krishna was  afraid of him. He dared not challenge him openly but he wanted  Raja out of his way. Before long he would accuse him, behind his  back, of usurping his responsibilities, his money, his property. Raja  realized that since Krishna's affair with Rosalind had been brought  into the open among them, Krishna's behaviour had changed. But  he was not willing to give up his life's work and be replaced by  Krishna's new friends because of Krishna's uncomfortable conscience  towards him. 
    Raja had lost a staunch supporter when Louis died, for in spite of  the distance that his marriage to Annalisa had put between them, Raja  still had Louis's firm trust. Louis often told us that he would never  have contributed so heavily to KWInc had it not been for his faith in  my father's integrity and good sense. The death of such friends and  the alienation of others due to Krishna's campaign against him would  isolate Raja more and more. He seldom left his house now, even to see  us in Santa Barbara. He no longer went to dinner parties, or played  chess, except occasionally with his grandchildren, his days of travelling  were over and nothing in the world seemed to bring him more than  fleeting moments of lightheartedness. 
    Krinsh still maintained a privately loving manner toward Rosalind, 
    although I noticed that he showed a new reserve when in the presence 
    of the new circle. Being in the company of all of them at once was 
    obviously uncomfortable for him. 
    When Krishna said goodbye to Rosalind that autumn, he held her 
    288  
 
                   
A New Circle in the Shadow 
    hand tightly for a brief moment and with a strange finality said, ?(r)?°„The  first love is the best love.' 
    Before he left for Europe, 1 had one last talk with Krinsh when  he came again to our house for dinner. We took a long walk on the  beach. I begged him to put an end to the hostilities with my father  and strangely enough he suddenly promised me that he would. The  next day Raja said he had a most encouraging phone conversation with  Krinsh in which they had both agreed to settle matters amicably, Krinsh  promising to negotiate directly with him. However only three weeks  later I heard again that Raja had received ultimatums, made almost as  soon as Krishna arrived in Europe. With this reversal I felt the situation  to be most depressing. So strong and instinctive had Krinsh's promise  to me seemed that I had felt he really meant it. Perhaps he had at that  moment. 
    I had my own strange farewell. Several months later, I had a dream  that brought me, as no outward incident could do, a sad sense of  finality. 
    I dreamed all my family were staying at a beautiful inn, on top of a  granite mountain with gentle slopes of smooth rock, studded with small  pines, surrcunding us. The others were gathered 1in the large, monastic  living-room and I had left them for the moment to see if Krinsh was  all right. Someone had mentioned he might be ill. I walked through  a long stone corridor to his room and he came out of the bathroom,  rubbing oil in his hair and saying he did not feel at all well. He had  on a mustard-coloured robe, the only colour there except for the dark  green of the pine trees. 
    He asked me to stay and talk with him for a moment. He was deeply  concerned that he would not live much longer, and before he died he  must: return to India and talk to his father, whom he had not seen  for many years and with whom he had not had a good relationship.  He wanted to ask his father to take care of Rajagopal and give him  a house. It was extremely important to Krinsh that Rajagopal have  this house and that Krinsh's father alone could provide it. But he  thought he would have great difficulty in persuading his father to  do this. 
    I offered to go to India with Krinsh, partly because I wanted very  much to go to India, but mostly because I felt sure that even though  I were a stranger to his father, I could help. Krinsh was touched and  most warm and affectionate about my offer and we walked together  out of his room and up a steep rocky pathway toward the crest of the  narrow peak. 
    289  
 
                   
 
    Just as we approached the top, Krinsh, who was in the lead, turned to  face me, sat down and became a figure of stone on a stone chair, similar  in pose to the statue of Lincoln in Lincoln's Memorial. But this was  not a solid or smoothly sculptured statue. It was of loosely assembled  stones, each piece roughly the shape of a hand or leg. I desperately  began to pull apart the rocks, hoping to find Krinsh somewhere inside,  but suddenly I looked up and saw the sky flaming with sunset. [ walked  to the top and looked over at the extraordinarily beautiful sea below and  felt Krinsh in all that, the sea and the sunset, and what was really him,  his essence, had gone there in freedom and left behind the dross which  was the rock. My sadness at losing him so suddenly left me, knowing  that he was free. But when [ awoke the sadness was there again, not  because I believed that he was dead, but I was struck by the contrast  between my dream and reality, and I thought that if either he or Raja  were to die now how terrible it would be for the one left and for all  ot us. 
    Krishna continued to persuade everyone around him, including Doris  Pratt, Raja's old friend and associate in the London office, that not  only was Raja arbitrarily barring him from KWInc, but that he had  withheld and misspent funds intended for Krishna's use. Many of the  old associates who had worked with Raja for over three decades and  with whom he had enjoyed a compatible relationship now suddenly,  along with Krishna's new friends, took Krishna's part, criticizing Raja  for being possessive and obstinate. Raja refused to explain what underlay  the recal conflict between him and Krishna; he still hoped to protect both  Krishna and Rosalind, as well as the thousands who he felt would be  deeply hurt and disillusioned if they knew the truth. Krishna refused to  recognize that before any new course of action could be taken, he must  do Raja the justice of discussing their lives, with all the ramifications that  had developed over the past forty years. After all it was Krishna's actions,  not Raja's, that had put their personal lives on a discordant footing.  Before their relationship was cleared of past misunderstandings, Raja  refused to be further drawn into obvious complications with a whole  new order of people and schemes. 
    What now looked like an open break compelled Rosalind to try again  to intercede. 
    Ojai, California Jan ??67  Dear Krinsh,  Thanks for your letter from Rome. I do hope all is well with you. 
    290  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    One has a strange feeling you are in orbit and not touching the earth.  Please take time to work things out quietly. You once said you could  never even lift a little finger against me. Surely this must apply to  Raja also. I know I wouldn't or couldn't act against either of you.  I also feel that you do not mind anything I may say to you. I hope  I am right about this so here goes: 
    At the outset let me say for you and R to have and show such  differences in your old age will lead to nothing but mischief and  calamity. It will involve others who cannot possibly know what had  been and . . . leave open the door for great trouble. Please give some  weight & thought to all this and let's have some peace. Otherwise it  is so stupid to end in a mess when one had such an opportunity to  do something fine. I wonder why you do not seem to see what all  this can lead to? Keep well and I hope we meet again soon. 
    Love,  ROSALIND 
    After six years of fruitless discussion, Krishna was still fulminating 
    about Arya Vihara. Where he had once clearly stated in a letter to Raja 
    that he wanted the house to be ?(r)given to Rosalind outright', he now 
    was accusing Raja of making arrangements behind his back and using 
    this as another reason why he must be reinstated on KWilnc.  Rosalind once more tried to clarify the situation in writing, after an 
    abortive telephone call to him in London. 
    Ojai June 12, 1967  What a strange state of affairs! It goes from bad to worse. I must tell  you the sequence of events leading to ?(r)Arya Vihara'. Mima phoned  me and.said they had a meeting in which it was decided to turn A. V.  over to the H.V.F. for me to be able to use it in my lifetime. She said  this was the only way they could see to fulfill your wishes. They all  felt that the people who had put money in A.V. were anyway the  people who supported H.V. There was also a letter from you saying  they were both one and the same [as Krinsh had said to me in Gstaad  in 1964]. 
    I was surprised then about this offer, as once in passing when  you mentioned it to me, I said that you might turn it over to  the H.V.F. and I w'ld give you the money from the sale of Saro  Vihara [the Logan house which Rosalind had inherited]. You did  not seem to like the idea of an exchange and made me feel that  you wanted to let Radha and me use it as a very kind gesture 
    291  
 
                      from you to us . . . You have no reason whatsoever to be con- cerned about this matter. Please feel free to do what you like about  it in any way -sell °– let others live here, anything. I will not  mind in the least and I am only deeply appreciative for the many  good years as well as the difficult ones that I have lived here. |  thank you from the bottom of my heart for making this possible.  [ really do not think I could have done the work I did with- out the quiet and strength I got from living here all these years.  Fini. 
    Now for the second part: I hate doing this; I would not be a  person who was ever a friend, had love, or was to be trusted if  [ did not speak out now. I did this long ago when you arrived in  Australia with Nitya. I broke his confidence to try and make peace  between you before he died. Krinsh, Krinsh, what is happening  to you? Such a betrayal with one who was so devoted in spite of  everything. I told you that he [Raja] felt you were out to destroy  him and now you are doing everything to prove it. Is it for revenge,  on account of the way he has spoken to you, money, property,  power °– what? You discredit him to others °– the talk is ugly and  libelous. Send legalistic letters °– highly inaccurate. How unhappy  everyone is! All this has completely humiliated and insulted him  beyond belief. 
    You came here in an odd manner. Most of the time spent on your  teeth, talks, people and did you really think in this way you could  solve anything decently? What can I say to a person who says he  refuses to talk or listen? I have been told that I seemed to be the  only person who could still talk to you. That you eliminated in  one way or another all those who do not say what you want to  hear and can only tolerate those who are sycophants or ?(r)yes' men.  This makes all around you suspect. What a dangerous position to  be in!! Like a king who was brought up to think he could do no  wrong . . . Now [ feel I cannot talk to you. There are no words  to say how sad and tragic all this has become. What is it you  want? Do you know what you have done? What an ending to your  lives! Louis' heart was broken when you became authoritarian. I  know he wrote you this . . . No matter what has gone wrong  with R and things have gone wrong . . . for you to betray him  now, if you couldn't help him, but to hurt him so terribly can  only make matters worse. I don't like to look at where all this  must lead. He has spoken to me as badly as to you but should  I harm him for this? In spite of all the above the Happy Valley 
    292  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    School is bursting with your ideas which is after all the great part  of your life. 
    In his reply to this letter Krishna ignored her explanation and reiterated  that Arya Vihara must not be given to Happy Valley. He told her that  she knew nothing of what was going on and that he must be in charge  of KWinc. He signed off with as much love as ever. 
    As Rosalind had pointed out, there was nothing for Krishna to be so  anxious about. It had only been a suggestion to give Arya Vihara to the  Happy Valley. There was no thought of acting without his approval.  He seemed determined to find fault with Raja, even where there was  none whatever. The matter of Arya Vihara was dropped; no further  action would be taken. 
    Rosalind continued to be distressed by Krishna's refusal to see what  she felt were the obvious dangers of his present course. She wrote  again, this time more desperate in tone: 
    June 22, 1967  At least you did write to me and [ am going to try to state the situation  as clearly as I can. Apart from all pros and cons that you should set out  to damage & defame presumably an old friend, regardless of what you  think he has done °– is against you not him . . . It is all so contrary  to what you have said to others. Don't you see this? Before you act  so hastily and rashly do please I beg you give a little more time ~  space °– thought. There is just too much pride from both sides. It  is so tragic. At the outset let me say I would not do anything to  hurt either of you, about this I am clear. There is only one thing  possible now as I see it °– for you to come here alone and get things  straight.. 
    Even so it may be too late as there is so much damage done already.  You are obviously getting very stupid advice from some who really  do not know what they are doing. 
    Everything is in good order °– every cent accounted for [and]  could be explained to you very simply if you saw all the rec- ords. You never wanted to be bothered before. At one time you  were asked to be a member of both boards and you refused. I  can't talk to R, he blows up at me about you & me wrecking his  marriage, repeats everything from the past. He had an operation  which went wrong & must have another. Mima begs him not  to die and leave her with this mess. I beg you to come here.  I will do anything I can to make things easy. Dear Krinsh can 
    293  
 
                   
 
      you hear me °– do you remember me!! Dear God let something 
    penetrate. 
    Again Krishna mistook the thrust of Rosalind's letter. Feeling she  had threatened him, he warned that he would no longer answer such  letters, that no good could come from them. 
    In spite of this, Rosalind made another attempt to meet with Krishna  in person when she took Ermie, who was suffering from back pain,  to the Bircher-Benner clinic in the autumn of 1967. She left Erma at  the clinic and met Krishna in London, where at Wimbledon, near  the scene of much happier times spent with Miss Dodge, she tried  to explain that Raja had always wanted to carry out his wishes, that  he had never acted against either of them and that he deserved at least  an attempt at reconciliation. Krishna was absolutely impervious to her  words, withdrawn and haughty. She felt totally unable to reach him.  He left for Rome. In London Rosalind met an old friend who told  her many disturbing rumours about Krishna and the things that were  being said by him and his new associates about Raja. At first this man  gave her permission to use his name with Krishna about the ?(r)anti-Raja  sentiment' and then withdrew it, feeling Krishna might resent it and  that might block the possibility of a friendly conversation with him  in the future. Ten days later when Rosalind saw Krishna in Rome,  he had shifted aspects or, as she saw it, personalities. He was loving  and appeared willing to talk. Rosalind asked him what she and Mima  should do to help make things right again. She asked him also what he  thought he should do. Krishna replied that he would return to Ojai, see  Raja alone and try to straighten things out. Rosalind finally felt hopeful,  but she had found talking to the ?(r)two Krishnas', one in London and one  in Rome, a strange and unsettling experience. She could not believe he  was the same person both times. The one in Rome was the one she  had always known. 
    Soon after, Krishna wrote his last letter to her. It was peculiarly in  the style of his earlier letters, written over several days, full of concern  for her well-being, with promises to set things right when he returned  to California the following summer, detailed and gloomy descriptions  of London and of Rome -both cities drenched in rain. He felt his age  acutely and looked forward to peace and quiet. ?(r)My love's with you  always,?°¿ he ended. 
    Krishna did not keep his promise to Rosalind. He must have known 
    when he made it that he could never bring himself to confront Raja 
    alone. In the spring of 1968, when Mima was in Paris, Krishna asked 
    294  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    her to try and settle matters for him with Raja, adding that if there was  no co-operation he (Krishna) would disassociate himself from KWinc.  Mima informed Krishna at the time that she would only go so far as to  relay the message, not attempt to settle matters between them. When  Mima returned to Ojai with this message, Raja replied that if Krishna  wanted to talk about such matters he must talk to him directly, not send  messengers. Krishna later accused Mima of not keeping her promise to  settle things for him and of lying when she protested that she had not  promised to do that. 
    Krishna, unable to bend Raja to his will, sent a new associate of  his, a stranger to Raja, to ?(r)investigate' the situation. The report, after  investigating the way in which KWiInc had been structured and func- tioned, all well known and approved by Krishna at the time, such as  giving Raja the power of attorney over KWinc, now incited Krishna  to claim that he had not known what he was signing. Even if he had  never bothered to read what he was signing that was certainly not  Raja's fault. 
    Thus continued the splitting and re-aligning of many old friendships.  Those who were not by temperament devotees could more easily see  Raja's side and would come more and more to stand by him as the  situation became even worse. 
    Those who considered themselves friends of both parties tried during  the next few years to bring about a reconciliation: with a few it became  almost a mission that they must achieve; for others there was a great  deal, psychologically, at stake. Many people who had adhered closely  to Krishna over the years had done so because in various ways they  felt he had literally saved them, and that they owed him a great  deal for this. Others who had worked closely with Raja and were  in a position to know most of the facts, which partly by nature and  partly of necessity, Raja had kept private, had to face a slow, bitter  disillusionment with Krishna °– the same disillusionment that Raja had  faced many years before and had lived with, coming to believe, much  as Rosalind now believed, that Krishna was more than one person. Until  a person had his own experience with the other side of Krishna, he was  susceptible to believing Krishna's charges against Raja. Many old friends  were deeply hurt when Krishna abruptly terminated his relationship  with them because they were intrepid enough to show the slightest  criticism. Among those, Carlo and Nadine Suar°ß|s, who for years had  opened their homes to Krishna for lengthy stays both in Alexandria and  in Paris and helped to translate his talks, most unexpectedly received  this treatment. 
    295  
 
                   
 
    As Krishna well knew, the Suar°ß|s had lost nearly everything in  the Egyptian revolution and their circumstances were far from easy;  nevertheless, when he was in Paris, they always invited him to stay  with them. But on the occasion when he had asked them to include  a new friend, Krishna inspected the guest room where Nadine Suar°ß|s  had invited the young man to stay and said, ?(r)A grown man cannot stay  in such a hole.?°¿ Nadine told me this story a few years later, her gentle  face suffused with baffled unhappiness. ?(r)How could he say such a thing?'  she asked while showing us the room, which was airy and comfortable  with a bed, desk and chair. Whether Krishna's behaviour stemmed from  some irritation toward the Suar°ß|s, the cause of which I am unaware, or  whether he was deliberately weeding out all the old-timers who were  not totally committed to him and opposed to Raja, I cannot say. 
    In my case, 1 had seen since childhood the various aspects of their  triangular relationship. When I was very young, I assumed that ours  was a normal household and that everyone had a Daddy, a Mummy  and a Krinsh; it was a great surprise to me to find, when I started school,  that this was not the case. But as there were so many other aspects of our  life that were unusual, I never cast a judgmental eye over what went on  under my nose. I never allowed myself to take sides in the arguments  that [ overheard. When they were all getting along apparently happily,  [ sensed that I lived in a rare and most privileged household, full of  interesting events and people. There was a sense of purpose, service and  worth in our daily lives, a sense re-inforced by the attitude towards us  of onlookers and visitors. | was aware always ofa solid front of three  loving and protective adults and I was never the cause of disagreement  amongst them. 
    It was with the greatest reluctance that finally in my early adulthood  [ had to separate them into three individuals and try to look at them  objectively, sorting out their rights and wrongs. 1 found it hard to  admit weaknesses and faults in any of them. On the surface both of  my parents had more abrasive and generally difficult personalities than  Krinsh, at least when they were upset, which happened more and more  frequently. Krinsh, on the other hand was almost always lovable, fun  and easy to be with. He never said a word against my mother to me,  but starting in 1964 he began the grave insinuations against my father  which demanded my attention. 
    At this point he didn't refer to him as my father but only as Rajagopal 
    and then finally as ?(r)he', as if the name were unspeakable. My father 
    would frequently lament Krinsh's treatment of him, but with the grief 
    296  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    born of a lost friendship rather than the hatred of a discovered enemy.  Krinsh's hatred ran so deep that he could hardly speak at all, as if it  welled up through a frozen crust, for he was not, in his own view of  himself and that of his devotees, supposedly able to feel hatred. But  he did not seem to try to hide it from me. In 1966 in Gstaad, when I  asked him why he had allowed my father to give his life to this work,  feeling about him as he must have for so many years, Krinsh replied  that he had carried him along because Raja was incapable of making  any other life for himself. This was such an absurd statement that I  was stunned into silence. I knew that my father had attained with high  honours a further degree from Cambridge. I had been a witness all my  life to his extraordinary efficiency and capability in the management of  a complex organization and his deep and very human concern for the  people involved in it. I realized then that there was no hope of ever  returning to what I, perhaps incorrectly, remembered as the harmonious  balance between them. A few years later my mother-in-law, on a visit  to Gstaad, asked Krishna how, after being friends for so long, things  could be so bad between him and Raja and strangely, he replied, ?(r)He  was my friend but I was never his.' 
    At Gstaad that summer Krishna had instigated a new attack on Raja.  He called together his friends from Ojai to taped meetings in which he  condemned Raja before the group and renounced all further association  with him. Krishna them recommended that these tapes be played to all  who wished to hear them. They even circulated as far as Australia.  News of this had naturally upset Raja in the extreme. 
    Krishna was to stay in California for several months, mostly in  Malibu, and it was here that Rosalind made one more futile attempt  to bring about a reconciliation between him and Raja. Krishna said he 
    would allow her a half-hour only of his time. He also insisted that his  hostess remain in the room. Rosalind returned to Ojai to write another  hopeless appeal. 
    3 November, 1968  After yesterday's conversation one is left with a terrible foreboding  of doom . . . The stage is all set °– everything you say °– everything  youdo . . . I tried to shock °– to awaken you to reality and it had no  noticeable affect on you. There seems to be a total lack of feeling 
    °– without kindness °– love or charity. Nethercot in his book The  Four Lives °– wrote among other things that it seems you hypnotize  yourself to believe what you want to.! Yesterday I said you were a  dual personality because you are often different people. For example  297   the one I spoke to yesterday was like the one I spoke to in London °–  completely different from Rome. What is tragic is that many of your  ideas were great and helpful and you are ruining it all now. Don't  you see how contrary all this is to everything you have always stood  for? What you have said regarding human relations and values? You  have always said that any disagreement about material things was a  reflection of wrong attitude in oneself. That you should descend to  this kind of vicious inciting is incredible, as you have done by talking  to so many and sending a tape around! These people are not directly  concerned and are only harmed by being made aware of this conflict.  Surely you and your advisers know that one doesn't air one's problems  in public but deals directly with the principles. What you are doing is  unheard of even among ordinary people. This is why so many people  are deeply, silently shocked.  In the end no matter how you feel or what you do, I have a grave  sense of responsibility out of the past. [ would see to it that you had  whatever care was necessary. This was a pledge I made Nitya the  last I saw him. I will keep it.  In January 1968 Krishna went in person, accompanied by members  of his new circle, to the Attorney-General's office in Los Angeles, to  accuse Raja of mismanaging funds. Later he would disclaim any part,  personally, in the ensuing lawsuits brought against Raja. In spite of  his past statements that it would be unthinkable for him to enter into  a lawsuit with Raja or to have anything to do with such matters, he  was the instigator of this first step. James Vigeveno was so disturbed  by these developments that a year and a half later he wrote a letter  trying to cast a little light °– and truth °– on the situation.  Ojai July 1969  TO FRIENDS OF MINE AND THOSE WHO ARE HURT:  Since 1927, now forty-two years ago, when I first met Krishnamurti,  [ have always been a great admirer and friend, and I have ever since  been deeply interested in his teachings. During these years I have  worked much for him, I have been a trustee and later Vice-President  of the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. until the end of 1966.  Rajagopal has worked for nearly fifty years for Krishnamurti's  teachings and has devoted his entire life to this work . . . Most .  efficiently, he has made of the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. an organi-R  zation which the world will be grateful to remember one day. '  But in 1960 things began to change . .. and I found myself in the  middle of a growing conflict between Krishnaji and Rajagopal . . .  298  
 
                   
A New Circle in the Shadow 
    In private talks with me Krishnaji started to criticize Rajagopal's  actions; he tried to influence me against him. Krishnaji's criticism  of Rajagopal became more insistent every year when I saw him  in Gstaad, and every year this matter was openly discussed at the  Saanen Gatherings . . . His attitude against Rajagopal became more 
    resentful, and he opposed him personally °– not his work. Krishnaji  has always admired this and has often told me: ?(r)Nobody could do  the work better than Rajagopal.' 
    Krishnamurti's tragic moment came in 1968, when during the  Saanen Gathering an official statement was read out which announced  his disassociation from the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc., and a denun- ciation of Rajagopal. With that you are all familiar. Much later I heard  that a few friends around Krishnaji had urged him not to make this  public announcement; but he had been adamant . . . 
    On October 31st 1968, Krishnaji called me over the telephone and  said to me: ?(r)I don't want to talk with Rajagopal alone. I want to meet  with the trustees of the Krishnamurti Writings, Rajagopal and you. If  this does not happen, I am out of it. If we don't meet before November  3rd, the lawyers will take charge . . . But under no circumstances will  I see Rajagopal alone. 
    ?(r)I am not threatening or forcing you. I am only telling you facts.  If there is no meeting as suggested, I will not see any of you again and  will not answer any of your letters. This is not a personal problem;  Krishnamurti Writings is a public affair. You are responsible. 
    ?(r)You are dealing with something sacred, and you are spitting on  it. Rajagopal is no longer the cock of the walk, the strong man. The  situation is grave, it is a sacred, holy matter . . . Don't you see the  gravity of this? He refuses a man like me offering my friendship!' 
    After this conversation I talked with Rajagopal. Rajagopal gave up  his insistence to speak with Krishnamurti alone, and agreed to send  the following telegram to Krishnamurti on November 2nd, 1968. 
    ?(r)Answering your wish to talk with KWinc. trustees, I can arrange  a meeting between you personally and the trustees at the KWinc.  office, Besant Road. Please advise date and time you desire after  your return from Claremont when more trustees will be available.  James Vigeveno' 
    On November 5th I received the following answer: ?(r)I regret very  much that Rajagopal and the trustees refused my request for a meeting  between all of us. I won't come to a meeting alone. The matter is now  out of my hands. Krishnamurti.' 
    Very disillusioned I wrote the following letter to Krishnaji: 
    299  
 
                   
 
    Dear Krishnaji:  The fact that Rajagopal gave up his strong demand to see you face  to face, was a great step towards understanding . . . This meeting  about Krishnamurti Writings matters cannot be held in the presence  of persons who know nothing or very little about forty-five years  of work and relationship between you and Rajagopal. 
    You cannot expect Rajagopal to attend a meeting with strangers  and prejudiced people, but you yourself insist on that point; and  because of that point alone it is you who are rejecting the friendly  hand offered to you. 
    You say you are ?(r)out of it'. But that is not so. Whether you  personally go to court or your group of friends on your behalf, the  result will be the same disaster. A lawsuit and a judgement will be  directed against you personally; and the press will be eager to seize  the story and dramatize it. You will be the principal figure in the  spotlight. This is precisely what Rajagopal is trying to prevent, so  that your life and your person will not be publicly discussed and  denounced and exposed. 
    Dear Krishnaji, I am writing this not to criticize but to ask you to see  what can happen, and look at it from the point of view of the facts. 
    There must be a way for two people °– him who has given the  teachings and him who has given his whole life to the teachings - to discuss and communicate about their problems, so that with love  and goodwill an understanding can come about.' 
    After having refused to meet personally with Rajagopal to discuss  their problem, Krishnamurti has spread the word that the money  given to Krishnamurti Wrtings, Inc. for him has not been made  available for his use. This 1s not true . . . all his expenses have  been readily met, and specially requested amounts for himself and  [his secretary] have always been sent to him by the Krishnamurti  Writings, Inc. 1n various instalments. A few months ago, however,  Krishnamurti suddenly refused the money, saying very curtly that  he would no longer accept it from [KWInc] as long as Rajagopal was  the head of it. In spite of this, Rajagopal had me send to Krishnaji  again the amount, hoping that, coming from me, he would accept  it . . . But again it was refused. 
    . . . One day, history will reveal everything; but the division in  Krishnamurti himself will cast a very dark shadow on all he has  said or written. Because the first thing the readers will say, is: ?(r)If  he cannot live it, who can?' 
    300  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    .. . I'leave it to you to think and find out which of the two is  nearer to the teachings and to living them. Rajagopal is not defending  himself, out of love for Krishnamurti and the wish to protect him.  Remember a question so often asked of Krishnaji: ?(r)What do you do  when you are attacked??°¿ He answered: ?(r)If you defend yourself, then  the defender becomes the attacker.' 
    JAMES VIGEVENO 
    James Vigeveno's letter touched many and angered others. Beatrice  Wood replied to James after receiving her copy: 
    Aug 1st, 1969  Dear James,  It is wonderful someone, who knew, had facts, came out so clearly  to speak of the impasses between Rajagopal and Krishnaji. 
    I had tears as I read it. It has been obvious to me Krishnaji is not  living his own teaching, that he has been making war. I am glad you  not only brought that out, but also that Rajagopal with dignity has  not added to the aggression, but kept silent in his own defense. 
    Were it wise I wish your letter could be published for many to  read. From a standpoint of wisdom 1t might only add to the fuel.  For few of us can be objective, and in the mind of devotees a world  teacher can do no wrong. 
    Krishnaji has said he wants no followers, yet he encourages people  to follow him around. Anyone who thinks independently, for himself  must see the unloving attitude that Krishnaji is pursuing. 
    On account of my respect and affection for Rajagopal I am deeply  grateful you have written so impressively and justly your thoughts.  Affectionately, 
    - 
   BEATRICE 
    Among the devotees, there were many who took grave offence at  James's letter. Krishna pretended not to recognize Annie Vigeveno,  when a few years later she offered him a ride up the hill to the Oak  Grove. Old friends, who stood by Raja, were denounced as being part  of a Judas syndrome. It is indeed hard to see that parallel. No one had  acted against Krishna. 
    301  
 
                   