
29 
    The Wheels of Justice 
    Once set in motion, the process of litigation moved slowly and inexo- rably towards a showdown. Raja offered terms which four years later  would be accepted. 
    Ermie died in November 1970, leaving Rosalind in the front line  alone now. There was no longer any close elder in her life to offer  the solace of greater wisdom and experience. For Rosalind it was like  losing a mother; Erma had cared for her since birth. 
    In one of her last lucid moments Ermie said to us, ?(r)I have studied  philosophy and the religions all my life and everything is still a great  question.' 
    I will never forget the look of childlike wonder in her beautiful  blue-green eyes as she said this, completely without fear, just a vital  curiosity still carrying her through her last moments. 
    It was in January 1971, when my mother became convinced that  there would be a trial and the privacy of her life would be invaded,  that she sat down one day and told me all the details of her relationship  with Krishna. She said she did not want me to hear it the first time  in a courtroom and if he himself had not brought about the present  situation she would never have told anyone. It was a relief to her when  I replied that ever since I could remember I had been aware of the close  relationship between her and Krinsh. 
    Rosalind then appealed to the attorneys on both sides, telling them  how disastrous a trial would be, most of all for Krishna, only hinting  at possible scandal. She was still not prepared to reveal publicly her  own relationship with Krishna; it would take yet another lawsuit to  wrench that from her. But her plea was disregarded. 
    In 1971 Krishna had returned to California, but not to Ojai, where he  was refusing to talk as long as Raja was involved with KWInc. I phoned  him in Malibu to plead once more that he try to end the hostilities. To  open the conversation I asked him if he knew that Ermie had died.  At first he acted as though he didn't know who Ermie was. When  I refreshed his memory, he sounded unmoved. (Erma, while never 
    302  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    uttering a word of criticism, had, with Louis, withdrawn from personal  and financial involvement with Krishna.) I heard a voice prompting him  in the background. 
    ?(r)Can't we carry on this conversation without the help of another  party?' I asked.  Krinsh denied that anyone was in the room. I was appalled by this  blatant deception. 
    ?(r)This whole matter is something private, as you well know, between  you and my father. It is something that should be settled in a closet, not  a courtroom.' 
    I then went too far, saying, ?(r)It seems to me it is a conflict of ego and  pride and surely you of all people should be able to deal with that.'  Krinsh was outraged. His voice changed completely from a formal  indifference to heated anger. [t became almost shrill.  ?(r)I have no ego!' he said. *Who do you think you are, to talk to me  like this?'  [ replied, ?(r)I am nobody.' Indeed I realized he did not know me. [  was a total stranger at that moment. 
    After this conversation which ended so badly, I did not see or talk  to him again for three years. It was the first time he had ever been  angry with me, although I had witnessed his anger towards others. |  discovered it was a very different experience to be his direct target. Over  the next few years | would meet a series of people who had suffered the  same fate, often with devastating results. Strangely enough I felt [ owed  to him my resilience and ability to cast off his anger without injury,  although I would continue to feel a great sadness for them all. 
    In December 1973 Jimmy and I went to India for three months. Our  daughter and son, Tinka and Robbie, now in college, came with us. On  an impulse [ wrote to Krishna telling him we would be in Bombay in  January and asking him to call our hotel there if he would like to sece  us. He called, and though his voice then sounded a bit remote, when  we drove up to the house he was standing outside watching for us,  apparently anxiously. He said he was afraid we might get lost. He  was as affectionate as ever, holding my face in his hands and gazing at  me for a long potent moment. There were several people at the table,  although his hostess was away in New Delhi. One of the other guests  had been most sweet and helpful to my mother when she had visited  India in 1956, and she at least asked after Rosalind, but during lunch  neither of my parents' names was mentioned once by Krinsh, nor was  Ojai. A curtain had fallen on that part of the world. Krinsh showed us  a model of his new school with which he was evidently very absorbed. 
    303      I left this luncheon feeling we had not really established any contact and  that my farewell dream of seven years before had been indeed the true  farewell. 
    On that trip we stayed for two weeks in the Theosophical headquarters  at Adyar as guests of the late President, John Coates. We met several  people who had been obliquely touched by the lawsuit between Krishna  and Raja. Krishna had objected to a contract Raja had made with Quest  books, a Theosophical publishing house, to publish Krishna's writings.  Krishna was supposedly still taking a stand of complete aloofness from  the Theosophical Society, although a very few years later he would  reverse this attitude. (First he was to refer to Raja as that ?(r)damned  Theosophist', in a rancorous realization that Raja had never resigned  from the society.) Mr Coates showed us the apartment that was still  kept for Krishrna in accordance with Mrs Besant's wishes. ?(r)We have  never locked him out as he claims,?°¿ Mr Coates told me. ?(r)And he now  claims your parents have locked him out from Arya Vihara.?°¿ ?(r)Then  Krinsh had not accepted after all,?°¿ I thought to myself, ?(r)when my  mother asked him to stay away from Ojai for those few years.?°¿ But  I said nothing. 
    We were staying in Leadbeater Chambers, the large three-storey buil- ding that my father and Rukmini's brother Yagna, had once scampered  around when it was being built. One morning during breakfast, a man  appeared on our veranda and introduced himself as the person involved  in arbitration of the Vasanta Vihar property across the river, now also  an object of litigation. He told me how he was living in it to keep up the  property until a settlement was reached. He claimed that Krishna had  harried the Theosophists about both of his Indian schools and property.  [ was sorry later that [ had not pursued a more detailed line of inquiry  instead of trying to end, rather than expand, that conversation. 
    Rosalind had decided to build a house on Happy Valley for her use  during her lifetime with funds from the sale of her Saro Vihara house.  Krishna must not have known of her plans, for he sent a verbal message  with a friend that Rosalind should vacate Arya Vihara as he now had a  use for it. His endless statements and letters designating Arya Vihara as  hers for her lifetime were not referred to and were probably forgotten  by both of them. 
    In December 1974 an out-of-court settlement was finally reached. 
    The parties in the Agreement [Krishnamurti Foundation of America,  Krishnamurti Foundation Trust Ltd, England, Krishnamurti and 
    304  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    the trustees of said organizations on the one hand, and K & R  Foundation, Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. of Ojai, and Rajagopal]  wish to make it clear to all those who are concerned with the  teachings of Krishnamurti that it is the intent of this agreement to  settle all-differences so that the work of Krishnamurti throughout  the world may proceed effectively. 
    . . the trustees of said organizations have entered into an Agree- ment settling and resolving all of the disputes and differences that  have existed between them for a number of years. All the parties have  agreed to withdraw the allegations that have been made against one  another and to dismiss all legal claims based on these allegations. 
    Raja had sought for the previous four years to protect Krishna from  the publicity that would ensue from a trial, even to the point of refusing  to consider his own defence. He hoped against hope that Krishna would  come to his senses and retract the absurd but terrible and imprisonable  charges he had made against Raja. In the settlement, Raja offered the  material properties that he had offered and that had been rejected four  years ago; now they were accepted. While Rosalind's interventions may  have caused some confusion for Raja, they may well also have convinced 
    Krishna's advisers that it would be detrimental in the extreme to drag  him into the courts.  Peace was to be short-lived, in spite of the judge's orders that no 
    actions between these parties ever be resumed. Unfortunately the judge  died, which was perhaps not legally relevant, but in any case alleged  grounds for another action against Raja were gathered. Raja had already  given up publication rights to everything after 1967, plus the KWinc land  and almost all the funds, except what had been agreed in the settlement  that he could keep for work on the compilation of a thirty-volume  library edition of Krishna's complete works up to 1967 which Harper's  had agreed to publish. This contract would extend way beyond his own  lifetime for almost thirty years and after his death would pass to the  Krishnamurti Foundation. Raja had sought to safeguard this project in  every way he could and the publisher told me, as I drove him back  to the airport after making this agreement with my father, that any  publishing house would snap up the contract Raja had offered, even  with the possibility of being embroiled in a lawsuit. 
    Raja's oldest friend, Rukmini Arundale, was among those still loyal  to him. There had always been a certain rivalry with her on Krishna's  part. He had been scornful of her role as the world mother (although  she had not sought to be put in that position). After her husband, 
    305  
 
                   
 
    George Arundale, died, Rukmini's brother Sri Ram had succeeded him  as President of the Theosophical Society and, after him, John Coates.  In 1980, there was another election in the society and Rukmini was  one of the candidates for the presidency. She lost to her niece, Radha  Burnier. Radha had for many years been a close friend of Krishna and  his letters to Rosalind had mentioned her frequent walks with him on  the beach whenever he was in Madras. Rukmini wrote to Beatrice Wood  in August 1980 about this situation, expressing her surprise that Krishna  had taken part in the campaign by saying that if Radha Burnier became  President he would once more walk on Theosophical land at Adyar. 
    It would appear that for Krishna his life was closing full circle. He  had deeply resented the snub he felt he had reccived from the society.  His hopes as a youth to take hold of it and reform it had ended in his  splitting off from it but, as his letters to Rosalind indicate, he could  never walk within sight of Adyar without feeling bitter nostalgia at his  self-imposed exile. One wonders how much of his thought and inner  striving had been aimed at this final triumphant re-instatement. 
    He had also tried to stake a claim to the Happy Valley Land. The  advances on his behalf had been welcomed but only if he would accept  the simple few conditions which were part of the general policy of the  Happy Valley Foundation towards any groups that might use the land;  that there should be no cults based on a personality, and there must be  a sharing of certain common facilities like the library. After receiving  these terms of lease from the Happy Valley Foundation, nothing more 
    was heard.  Once more Krishna turned his attack on Raja. Beatrice Wood expressed  her feelings about the new action: 
    Feb 22, 1981  [ am writing these notes hoping to clarify my thinking. Several  weeks ago I heard . . . another lawsuit was being started over  Rajagopal. This puzzled me because I understood that when the  lawsuit of 1974 was terminated that it was agreed there would be  no further harassment. 
    [K] wants all [Rajagopal's] papers, not only those which profes- sionally have to do with activities around Krishnamurti, which are  available for anyone to see, but also his private papers, which as an  individual he has a right to keep. The idea being that as a ?(r)secretary',  an employee, he is keeping back papers that belong to the ?(r)Boss'.  Since Rajagopal is a man of singular integrity and accuracy, besides  [being] knowledgeable about the law, I am doubtful that he would  306  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    withhold papers that he should not. I have known him as being  extraordinarily strict about correctness. 
    For forty years he has given up his life to helping, never as a  secretary but as a friend, and acting without salary. This he told  me himself. Dr Besant and Krishnamurti asked him to care for the  business side, the publishing of books, arrangement of lectures, and  he gave up a possibly brilliant career of his own to devote himself  to the teachings. Until recent years Krishnamurti never wanted to  have anything to do with financial nor business side of his work, and  until the break came between them, he completely trusted Rajagopal's  judgement and honesty, asserting he could not go on without his  assistance. 
    Much as [ admire the teachings of Krishnamurti, which have had  great meaning for me over the years, it bothers me that he [is]  acting in a vindictive manner, even to the extent of willingness to  have Rajagopal put in jail. This is hard for me to understand, as  for many years Krishnamurti lived as one family with Rajagopal  and Rosalind and he lovingly helped with the bringing up of their  daughter, Radha. It is sad and strange therefore that he is willing to  have Rajagopal thus persecuted. 
    After turning from everything theosophical he now wants a school  in Adyar for the training of teachers. What does this mean? 
    Various rumors continue to go around, and one is that Krishnamurti  is supposed to have said that he is even greater than Buddha or the  Christ °– Christ forgave his enemies. This can be impressive to  followers who do not know the whole truth, or the past. The  present is the child of the past, 
    -BEATO  When Jimmy and I returned to India in the autumn of 1981, we knew  that a new lawsuit was in the offing. 
    We stopped on the way to spend a few days with Vanda Scaravelli  in Fiesole and here for the first time she let us read a description of  her experience with Krishna's ?(r)process'. This had occurred in 1961, at  a time when she admitted she was disenchanted with his behaviour,  particularly toward my father. Vanda remembered Raja had asked her  to take care of Krishna in Europe (not in a business sense), as he was  withdrawing. Vanda had taken this as a binding commitment, though  she herself would withdraw more and more from his new circle.  Then she witnessed the ?(r)process'. Her experience, though recorded  with utmost sincerity and conviction on her part, struck us as another 
    307  
 
                   
 
    probable performance by Krishna. In this as in the others, he had  attempted to attach to himself the devotion of a particular woman  who was important to him at the moment. Yet Vanda still had her  own objectivity about him and was one of the few who had managed  to remain friends with both Krishna and my father. 
    ?°„You will be in India when Krishnaji is there. Do see him. Talk to  him and tell him to stop this lawsuit. He is like a child,?°¿ she said. ?(r)He  can be very naughty but he does not know what he is doing and now  he wants to be grown-up and take charge but he will make a mess.' 
    We agreed with her in part, but felt things had gone far beyond the  pranks of a naughty child. I wasn't sure at that moment that I wanted  to talk to him. I told Vanda I would decide only when we got to India.  Thinking 1t over during the long flight I felt there was nothing to lose  in trying once more to reach him and that it would be much easier to  see him in India than in Ojai. 
    On arrival in Delhi I obtained the phone number of his hostess, Pupul  Jayakar, from a mutual friend. She received my call warmly and went  to ask Krinsh if he would like to see us. We were invited to lunch the  following afternoon. 
    Jimmy and I were shown into a large light room, simply and tastefully  furnished with, here and there, Indian art objects of great beauty. In a  moment Krinsh walked in, dressed in Indian clothes. He was more frail  than in 1974, the last time I had seen him. A large bald spot on top of  his head was covered by long hair swept forward in what I thought  was a most peculiar styling. He had always been vain yet it surprised  me that baldness should matter that much to him now. Far worse was  an obvious problem with his teeth or gums, which affected his speech.  The trembling of his hands was not new but was more pronounced.  There were tears in his eyes as he hugged me then stood back to look and  asked, ?(r)Are you still Kittums?' to which I answered quite insdnctively,  ?(r)Are you still Krinsh?'?°¿ He seemed to get the point, gave a half smile  and we sat down, all three together, after he had also warmly greeted  Jimmy. He talked of this and that, nothing personal, until we were  called to the dining-room. Here, seated on Krinsh's right at a round  table, there began what I can only describe as his game of ostensible  intimacy with his favourite of the moment. As a very small child I had  innocently monopolized that position, but had sometimes witnessed it  in his interaction with others. Now I found myself once again in that  privileged place. It consisted of a sharing of morsels of food from plate  to plate, being very sure I was well provided for, an occasional squeeze  of knee or elbow to show that his attention was really inwardly with 
    308  
 
                   
The Wheels of Justice 
    me. In spite of all this the conversation kept flowing smoothly from  inventions to politics, thanks mostly to his efforts. Seated at the table,  much to the satisfaction ofa very old curiosity on my part was Nandini,  whose famed beauty still lingered in spite of her white hair and gracefully  ageing face. At one point, perhaps for my benefit, to show off his former  Californian style of informality, or for her benefit to show that he was not  neglecting her, Krinsh picked up a banana and tossed it across the table  to her. This reminded me of a long ago meal at Arya Vihara, where  my mother had tossed a carrot down the whole length of the table to  Aldous. ?(r)Here, Aldous, have a carrot!?°¿ Just as Krinsh now said, ?(r)Here,  Nandini, have a bananal' 
    As lunch was drawing to a close I said softly to Krinsh that I would  very much like to have just five minutes alone with him. Now he  demurred and said he must rest because he was to see Indira Gandhi  that afternoon. ?(r)Just five minutes, Krinsh,' I persisted, feeling suddenly  that this was perhaps my only chance and feeling too so much of my  old love for him and his for me, and that if ever one person could reach  another surely it would be in such a state. 
    I wasted no time launching into the subject. I told him if he was  planning to continue with another lawsuit, I thought it was, for his  sake above all, a very bad idea ~ that in the end he would destroy  everything he had tried to create. His schools, his teachings would  all suffer and he would be remembered only for his lawsuits against  a man who had given his life to helping him. 
    I said, even granted that he was right on all the issues, which I did  not grant, but even if°– was what he was doing still worth it? For the  sake of what? 
    ?(r)Kittums . . .?°¿ Again he held my knee, closed his eyes as though  searching for the right answers but none came, only questions.  ?(r)Do you not think I spend all my time thinking about this? Do you  think I want it?' 
    ?(r)Then why?' 
    Still no real answers came. 
    ?(r)What has my father done to you? Have you any idea what the feelings  are in Ojai, how people talk about him and my mother?'  At mention of her he shook me as if to stop my words.  ?(r)Don't please . . .'  ?(r)When Daddy fell over a wire walking his dog someone close to you 
    said, ?°„Too bad he didn't break his neck?°¿, and someone else said very 
    much the same thing when my mother fell, and when poor Byron 
    Casselberry had a stroke, they said it was because he had remained 
    309  
 
                   
 
    loyal to Raja. They are saying these things because of you. They think  it is what you want. You have spawned this attitude.' 
    ?(r)Rajagopal has been impossible about money, if you only knew . . . 
    ?(r)Please tell me.' 
    With this he repeated the story I had heard in Gstaad seventeen years  before. 
    ?(r)Can't you come up with a new complaint in all these years? You told  me that in Gstaad and then showed me all those travellers' cheques he  had sent you.' 
    ?(r)Please let's not talk about this; it is pointless.'  ?(r)What else has he done, then? Do you mind him publishing the series  with Harper?'  ?(r)No, no, that's all right. Let him do that. But he must return the  archives where they belong so you and all of us can see them.'  ?(r)He wants to give them to the Huntington Library. Everyone could  see them there. Do you object to that?' 
    ?(r)They must be where they belong,' he reiterated. 
    ?(r)Is that all? Is that what the whole thing is about?' 
    ?(r)Yes. I could stop this lawsuit tomorrow if| wanted to.' 
    ?(r)Why don't you? Why don't you meet with him alone and stop it?  But you cannot expect him to meet with all those people. He has been  humiliated too often. If you don't want to be alone with him, I will offer  to sit and listen and not say anything, if you feel you need a witness, or  just to keep peace.' 
    He promised he would do this. Suddenly there was a new look in  his face, purposeful, and I had hope. 
    ?(r)Krinsh, I would love to see you in California, and you are always  welcome to stay with us. But please call me. I cannot call you and go  through those people around you. I don't want to be in that position.' 
    ?(r)T understand,' he said. ?(r)I promise I'll call you when I get to Ojat.' 
    He looked washed out though, and Nandini appeared at the doorway. 
    She had ordered a taxi for us. We were definitely being ushered out. He 
    hugged me hard and said, ?(r)Don't talk for a moment °– just be quiet,?°¿ and 
    then he left the room. 
    Pupul had disappeared and as we said goodbye to Nandini, who 
    seemed very shy and had not spoken a word all through lunch, 
    remarked, ?(r)T always heard you were perfectly beautiful and you are.?°¿ She 
    looked astonished and followed us out to the taxi with a wide smile. 
    When Krinsh returned to Ojai the following spring he kept his promise  and phoned to tell me that he would attend a meeting with my father, 
    310  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    = 
   =R~ 
    but he did not specify that it would be a private one, and consequently I  had little hope that anything good would come of it. He promised to let  me know the outcome. In fact he did not arrange the meeting at all, but  Annie Vigeveno had suggested that there be a meeting in her house. As  I would have predicted, Raja did not show up. Krishna and his trustees  had walked into Annie's house, and Krishna had immediately counted  the chairs before sitting down, then asked, ?(r)Where is Rajagopal to sit?'  Annie replied that he had just called to say he was not coming, with  which Krishna left in a fury. 
    Krinsh called me two days later and this is the conversation, which  [ typed from memory immediately after. 
    K I am calling you because I said I would call Wednesday night  and tell you what happened at the meeting. We all went to  Mrs Vigeveno's house Monday morning as arranged. When we  entered the room [ counted the chairs and asked right off where  will Rajagopal sit? Mrs Vigeveno said, ?(r)I will explain; please sit  down.' I sat and she said that Rajagopal was not coming. There  was no apology or explanation. I rose instantly and said there  was nothing to discuss without him there and walked out. Mrs  Vigeveno said that Rajagopal would like to talk with me alone  and I told her that if that was the case he could telephone me  directly and arrange it. He has not done so. I am telling you  this, Kittums, exactly as it happened, without exaggeration. I  have tried for ten years to settle this in every way I could, have  sent letters . . .  Have you ever talked to him alone?  Yes. I went to his house and he taped the whole conversation.  Later I caught Mrs Porter checking the tape so [ know. [This took  place some years earlier.] People just do not do these things. [tisn't  done. It's not decent behaviour. Either Rajagopal is completely  mad or dishonest or he is playing games. He doesn't want this  settled.  I know he is none of those things. It's terrible to say things  like that.  I''m not sure. But I have done what I could, I will not go_there  again. Every time we have arranged a meeting he makes an excuse  the last minute not to come.  [ happen to know he really was ill this time.  So am I!' I got out of bed to come. I don't believe him.  Would you be willing to see him alone if he calls you? 
    n  
 
                   
 
    . 
   ARAEFRER 
   TR 
    I have a definite condition otherwise I refuse.  What is it?  The archives must be returned to the place they belong, which  was agreed on, and where we can all freely see them.  Is that the only issue, the only condition?  Yes.  Well I'm sorry it ended like this. It's very sad.  There is nothing more I can do; I have tried everything.  [ don't know what to say.  There is nothing you can say. I am not asking you to tell Rajagopal  anything.  No, I don't want to get in that position. When are you going  to New York?  Next week.  How long will you be gone?  About ten days.  We are going to Wrightwood tomorrow.  There is snow there. It will be beautiful.  Yes, would you like to come?  (laughs) T can't go anywhere. I am in bed.  Well, perhaps when you get back. I'll try to call you before  you go. Is there a phone number where I can reach you in the  evening?  I am staying in Mrs °–'s house and this is her private number.  Nobody can have it. She has her own reasons. 
    R All right, I'll call you during office hours. Thank you for telling  me all this.  K I did it because you asked me and I said I would. 
    Krinsh was, in fact, staying in the very same Pine Cottage where my  grandmother Sophia had once stayed, where my mother had cared for  Nitya and then cared for Krinsh through the first ?(r)process'. It had been  Krinsh's home for the past sixty years. From what I had heard, it had  now been transformed beyond recognition into a luxurious domicile  with tiled floors and modern kitchen. 
    There were several points in this last conversation I would ever have  with Krinsh that might have been argued, but I did not feel it would  be of any help. First, he had ignored the most important part of my  plea and that was to see Raja alone. He had not made any effort to do  so, although that had been a promise. Waiting for Raja to call him was  not the same thing. Raja had been humiliated once too often by meeting 
    ~ A 
    312  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    Krishna in the presence of his trustees. One time when they had all come  to inspect the archives, as was their right under the settlement, Raja had  held out his hand to Krishna and asked that they forgive and be friendly  and Krishna had replied, ?°„You do penance first before you ask for my  friendship,?°¿ and, snubbing the proffered hand, had marched out with  his group behind him. This story will be unbelievable to many, but  luckily Raja had witnesses of his own, and I have no difficulty after my  conversations with Krishna and hearing the hatred in his voice when  he spoke Raja's name in believing it. 
    If, as Krishna repeatedly claimed, he wanted the archives available for  anyone, why had he interfered with them being given to the Huntington  Library? Some had already been sent, but the charges in the latest lawsuit  had quite naturally made the Huntington wary of accepting them. It was  clear that Krishna really wanted the power to destroy those papers he  thought would be damaging to his image. 
    Rosalind decided to make one final effort. She still dreaded the thought  of a trial and of having her whole life laid bare, and she had known all  along that a trial would mean no less. 
    On 8 June 1983 she wrote a complete and detailed account of her  relationship with Krishna, including the abortions, the miscarriage and  his behaviour over the affair in India. She sent it in a sealed envelope  to Vanda, in Gstaad asking her to please have Krishna open and read  it to himself, in Vanda's presence, without letting anyone see it and  tear it up immediately. She hoped that if he read, precisely spelled  out, what would become public knowledge in a trial he might come  to his senses. 
    Vanda replied on 6 July from Gstaad: 
    Dear Rosalind, 
    This morning I handed your letter to K. He said ?(r)it was too long' 
    but read it almost all. Then he handed it to Mrs°– saying that there 
    were things concerning the foundation that she should know. 
    In the afternoon he tore it in front of me. 
    On 22 December 1983, I was standing in my husband's study when  a stranger rapped on the door and thrust an envelope in my hand. It  was a subpoena from Krinsh's attorneys ordering me to appear for a  deposition and to bring any records or memos of phone conversations  between Krishnamurti and me concerning my father. This, as nothing  else had done, drove home to me how unprivate our lives had now  become, how we had been thrust into an impersonal arena. It had been 
    313  
 
                   
 
   
    a year and a half since my last phone conversation with Krinsh. [ knew  about the letter my mother had sent to him but there had been no reply  to that. - 
   If Krishna tried to deny his nearly thirty-year affair with Rosalind  and his responsibility in her pregnancies, or if he tried to say that she  had seduced him with Raja's condonation and it had all been over long  ago, his letters to my mother over a span of twenty-five vears would  emphatically disprove such a claim. But it probably did not occur to  Krishna that Rosalind had kept these letters. She and I were the only  ones who had read them at that point. 
    In the autumn of 1983 the lawsuit against Raja was suddenly with- drawn, but with the right reserved to open another case in the future. 
    Rosalind believed that her letter ultimately had the effect of making  Krishna's side drop their lawsuit. She knew that he had allowed another  party to read the letter and knew that it might even have been copied to  be misused at a later time. She also knew that the threat ofa trial, where  lies and truth about her whole life, as well as Krishna's and Raja's, would  be spewed forth in a courtroom. had only temporarily been lifted. She  was thus moved to allow me to use her memory and her letters in this  book. She felt that since Krishna had set in motion the events that had  led to the present impasse, the whole truth must now come out. It was  a painful and terrible decision for her to make and one that involved  the intrinsically self-sacrificing nature that those close to her know so  well. She was fully aware of what this public knowledge could do to  her final vears. She had tried in her heart never to take sides between  Krishna and Raja, but she could not repress her sense of justice. That  doing so might hurt her as well as Krishna was not as important a  consideration as the failure to clear Raja publicly of the terrible charges  Krishna had made against him. 
    Rosalind had tried to cut herself free from her relationships with both  Raja and Krishna and to go her own way. Her life with them seemed  now like another life of another person. But she had been forced to  come back and clarify feelings and actions of the past. She had finally  freed herself from anger and from hurt. The past was almost buried  and now she wanted peace; but she wanted truth more. 
    Raja, at last worn down by fifteen years of harassment and strongly 
    backed by his trustees, filed a suit against Krishna and his associates, 
    claiming slander and subjection to two previous ill-founded lawsuits, 
    plus many other counts. 
    [ was convinced by my last two conversations with Krishna, the one 
    in Delhi and the one over the phone, that the basis of all Krishna's 
    314  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    actions against Raja was his fear of what the archives contained, of what  would happen to his public image if letters and statements in his own  handwriting should ever come to light. He wished to acquire control  over these archives by whatever means necessary. It seems not to have  occurred to him that Raja's whole life had been given to protecting him,  that the last thing he would ever have intended was to hurt Krishna in  any way. It had taken Raja nearly twenty years of enduring outrageous  charges to move to protect himself against Krishna. Up to the threshold  of this last trial, he was still trying to get a settlement. 
    When I learned the terms of the proposed settlement, I felt my father  would be accepting peace at a high price. He felt tired and old and did  not want a trial which, if he had won, would have forced Krishna and his  followers to retract all the charges against him and to promise never to  re-open the battle, just what the judge had ordered in the first settlement  of 1974, It would also have exposed all the details of Krishna's life. I  wondered if my father still found it impossible to expose Krishna even  if it were the only way to save himself. I realized he was not a fighter  or a destroyer but in the true Hindu sense, a Vaishnavite, belonging  in nature to Vishnu the preserver, for whom righteousness and dharma  are all important. He was being pushed to go against the core of his  nature and perhaps in the end would refuse. 
    There are those who might also see Krishna, with his multi-aspects,  in Hindu terms, as a Shaivite: Shiva Nataraj, Lord of the Dance as  Creator, also, Shiva the Destroyer. In tantric tradition it is realistic  and even good that there be these different aspects. It is the reality  of the universe. Sexuality and even lust in the gods and in yogis is a  transitignal part of this reality, however difficult it may be for the more  puritanical among us to accept. Krishna, however, refused to associate  himself with any of these traditions. He preferred to see himself as a  man who successfully straddled or side-stepped the culture heritages of  East and West. 
    In Western terms, as an alternative to the theory of the vehicle or  of multiple personalities, one could still say that Krishna was a person  of strongly differing aspects. The question is, to what degree was he  conscious of these differences? 
    Was the claimed loss of memory of his early years, as well as his claim  to be unconditioned, spontaneous or a deliberate effort on his part to  eliminate a burdensome past? The re-writing of one's personal history is  not uncommon among those who need a certain public image. Krishna  was a poor, undernourished child, but not, as some have suggested,  retarded. He only appeared to be. He had, in fact, an exceptional mind 
    315  
 
                   
 
    and the sort of mental energy which is the key to productive genius. He  learned early that to appear slightly moronic or helpless was a protection;  first, from abusive treatment and, later, from other people's expectations  which he had no wish to fulfil. Leadbeater had the acumen to perceive a  spark in him and to nurture it. Krishna received intensive training that  started under his own family, a training that would serve him well  throughout his life. His self-discipline in adhering to a persistent regime  of physical fitness, extended his probable life expectancy by about fifty  years. 
    As for the ?(r)process', personal interpretations and assumptions will  provide a variety of conclusions. Hindu culture is steeped with the  ideal of Moksha, generally meaning the transcendence of difference  between subject and object, or as Krishna expressed it, between the  thinker and the thought. And this, according to some definitions, is a  more permanent state than samadhi. 
    Krishna's ?(r)process', as Leadbeater noted, does not clearly fit this  concept. But there is no doubt that it proved highly successful in  gaining the devotion and love of a series of women. Even without  the ?(r)process', he knew how to gain the sympathy and the protection of  the right people, from Mrs Besant to Raja and Rosalind and those who  succeeded them. He could survive without deep emotional attachments  (detached love is an intrinsic part of his philosophy), but he needed  affection on a certain level and for this could easily substitute one  person for another. There had to be someone (a woman) he could  feel close to, speak to, or write to daily. 
    His love for Rosalind was the longest and perhaps deepest of his  life. It stemmed from the early, happy years at Ojai with Nitya. For  years Rosalind provided for his every emotional need. She nurtured,  healed and loved him, yet refused to see him as an exalted person. This  anchored and sustained the normal side of him ~ the side he needed  to experience life as most people do, in order to talk about it. He  established a true family existence with my mother and me, but he  felt free to walk away when he chose. We were not his responsibility,  an obligation which he was probably incapable of accepting. Neither  did he feel guilt. To feel this one must first feel responsible. He often  showed concern but that is not the same. Responsibility involves an  ongoing and sometimes long-range commitment. Concern can be as  incidental and fleeting as a moment. Therefore he enjoyed the best sides  of ordinary human existence while elevating himself to a philosophical  freedom from what he saw as the less desirable. 
    He inspired others to live spontaneously, openly, keeping alert but 
    316  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    not judging, thus obviating the necessity of ambitious choice. But he  was capable of making and enacting long-range plans. Throughout his  life, he blazed his way to definite goals; he acquired houses and land for  schools. He formed new circles to replace the old, without interrupting  or hampering the course of his life. 
    Fear was central to much of his teachings, as it was central to him.  It drove him to the childish solution of lying rather than confronting  a difficult issue. Sometimes his lies were transparent and without guile,  sometimes they were accompanied by the self-delusion that makes a lie  believable. What made both Raja and Rosalind a threat was that they  knew he lied. He had admitted this to them both. With a long-range  view, he proceeded to discredit Raja in order to remove him from his  life. For a while he thought he could control Rosalind, that she would  stand by him through anything. He did not really turn against her until  she came to Raja's defence in the first lawsuit. Others had been aware of  his deceptions but had chosen to overlook them. Most people around  Krishna were devotee types, no matter what they or he protested to  the contrary. Hence they were willing, in fact compelled, to believe  anything he said or did. Some would even interpret his hurtful actions  as an intentional lesson for their welfare. 
    Krishna possessed almost all the qualities that make a person attractive  (to both sexes and also children and animals). Outwardly, when he was  younger, he was beautiful, charming, gentle, physically courageous and  compassionate. He could focus intensely on a particular person and make  that person feel he was the most important thing in Krishna's life at  that moment. He could be convincing, privately and publicly, that he  wanted to help, to alleviate suffering, to heal, to show individuals and  mankind at large a condition of freedom. In later years he sometimes  was negative, cantankerous and critical, but often the former qualities  prevailed. 
    He had a natural gift for language, especially poetry, and had distilled  with verbal brilliance the essence of wisdom, handed him by his early  teachers. In his early manhood, he was a forerunner in expressing the  type of iconoclasm that would bring immediate fame to cult figures  fifty years later. 
    317  
 
                   