 PART THREE  DENOUEMENT 
    Lost in a Pathless Land  (1947-86)  
 
                   
 
    20 
    The Shadow Deepens 
    In the autumn of 1947 Krishna, fully recovered, left Ojai on his first  trip abroad since before the war. Raja went with him as far as England  and stayed in Europe until the following spring while Krishna went on  to India. Rosalind remained in Ojai, absorbed by the school. 
    Krishna was to remain away for a year and a half. He had never lost his  attachment to the country of his birth and in the last seven years he must  have yearned for it. Yet from the moment of his departure from QOjai and  Rosalind, he resumed the correspondence with her that had been a daily  routine in his absences before the war. His letters continually reaffirmed  his love for her and the importance of their relationship; letters which  Rosalind seldom answered, for she did not look on them as a form of  correspondence but as a need in him to communicate his inner thoughts  to someone close. He did not expect her to write and in fact urged her,  as he often did me, not to bother. 
    Soon after his arrival in Bombay, Krishna met a very beautiful young  woman, Nandini Mehta, who was married to a Bombay businessman, and  her sister Pupul. In May, he went with these two sisters to Ootacamund.  In their presence, for the first time in twenty years, the ?(r)process' recurred.  Except for one time in Ojai when he had wanted no one, Krishna had  always'wan?(r)ted a woman to help him through the ?(r)process'. Nandini  would not be the last. This recurrence was very similar to those of the  past; weeping and calling for his mother, the pain in the head, the strange  voice, widened eyes, different face and a general plea for care of the body.  And as in his Theosophical days, there was evidently no question raised  by those present of a psychological or physical disorder. 
    In April 1949 Krishna returned to Ojai. It had been the longest 
    separation between him and Rosalind since they had met in 1922. At 
    first it seemed that their relationship would continue as it had for the 
    past seventeen years, surviving his long absences before the war and 
    the close confinement during it. They seemed happy to see each other. 
    Involved as she was with the school, he gave her support and advice in 
    her new work. On her side, she managed to get away from Ojai for 
    215  
 
                   
 
    the spring holidays and go with Krinsh and me to Wrightwood. 
    I had grown up with the knowledge that my parents had a peculiar  marriage and I had always felt, and on several occasions had even  observed, that the true marriage in our house was between my mother  and Krinsh. This never bothered me in the least, perhaps because I was  too young to judge. And I was brought up to ?(r)judge not'; Aldous used  to say that was one of the most important precepts in the Bible. Anyhow  by that spring I was deeply absorbed in a love of my own. 
    From the moment he had arrived to attend the school in the autumn of  1946, Jimmy Sloss and I had felt a bond which some of our Theosophical  elders described as the meeting of ?(r)old souls' but which we took more  prosaically for falling in love. Neither of us had the background to  be flattered by this reference to old souls. Hopefully if we had, we  would have had the sense to realize that it was our proximity to the  charmed circle, rather than any merits of our own, that drew forth  such conjectures. It would be a source of happiness and reassurance to  us both that we would have in the future such wholehearted approval  from both immediate family and close friends, for we would marry  very young. There would be a few years of separation after Happy  Valley School, however, before we came together for good. Jimmy  went off a year ahead of me to college in the east. In June 1949 I  graduated from the Happy Valley School and was looking forward to  going east to Swarthmore College where I had been accepted, as had  my cousin David. I was still surrounded by loving adults both within  the family and without. Mima Porter gave me a beautiful long satin  dress that my mother and I had fancied in a shop window in Santa  Barbara but felt was not affordable. My mother spent the summer in  Wrightwood with Krinsh and me, making my college wardrobe. 
    Most unexpectedly, a few days before my departure, Krinsh handed  me a hundred dollar bill to buy a warm coat in Philadelphia, the first  material gift I had ever had from him. And Iris Tree wrote for me the  following poem: 
    For Radha 
    Wherever you go 
    Wherever the winds blow 
    May there be singing 
    May there be flight 
    Of clouds alight 
    And wild birds winging 
    216  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    Wherever the winds rest  And the birds come to nest  To you the dove - On you through the winds stirring  Through the blind darkness living  The eyes of those you love. 
    While my adolescent self-centredness had largely insulated me from  the realities of that summer, I could not escape noticing a new tension  between my mother and Krinsh. It was not happy tension but one  which led to quarrels quickly suppressed by my presence. It would be  more than twenty years before I knew the cause. 
    At first Rosalind had found her relationship with Krishna ostensibly  unchanged. He seemed eager to return to the intimacy they had shared  before his illness. But once he called her by Nandini's name; a name  which at that time she did not know. She tried to convince herself1t was  just a vague and befuddled slip of the tongue. But when this happened  again with the same name, she was perturbed. It had not occurred to  Rosalind that disloyalty could enter into this relationship. For the reasons  already mentioned, she did not consider herself unfaithful to Raja, just  as she would not have felt betrayed by any haison that he might have  made. But where Krishna was concerned, at the very least she would  have expected to be informed if he were interested in someone else. As  her suspicion grew she finally questioned him. He denied absolutely  that there was anyone else in his life or could ever be anyone but her.  Rosalind was not as gullible and naive as she had once been, and the  vehemence of his denials made her all the more suspicious. Later she  would ?(r)claim it was the uncertainty more than his suspected disloyalty  that upset her. Over the years she had come to realize that Krishna was  not always a truthful person and as he himself had told her that his lies  stemmed from fear, she tried to reassure him that there would be no  difficult consequences whatsoever if he would just tell her the truth.  She said she could accept if he were in love with someone else and they  could go on being friends, but she could not endure being deceived. 
    Ovwer the years, fear and its origins such as death, ambition, insecurity,  had been important themes in Krishna's talks. It had always struck me  that those problems he talked about with the most profound insight were  those problems he struggled with in himself. Others have thought this  too, but then wondered, as I did not, how he could speak so knowingly  about sex and love. 
    217  
 
                             Krishna's adamant protestations of fidelity to Rosalind were consider- ably undercut when, six months later, after he had returned to Europe,  the following article appeared in Time magazine. 
    REVOLT OF A DOORMAT  Among the great fads of the 1920s {was] . . . Jiddu Krishnamurti . . .  a long-haired young Indian seer whom Bernard Shaw once called the  most beautiful human being he had ever seen. The Theosophist Annie  Besant had adopted Krishnamurti, and was freely predicting that he  would be a new messiah. He was more modest. ?(r)I may or may not be  the second Christ °– I don't know,?°¿ he once said. ?(r)I don't want people  to look up to me, to worship me. Most people are dumb anyway.'  Bunkum & Nonsense. Almost as if to prove it, thousands of disciples 
    °– mostly women °– used to gather to listen to his lectures on ?(r)truth  and love' . . .  Two years ago, close to 50 and still handsome, Krishnamurti  returned to India and relative obscurity . . . Last week he was  in the news again, involved in one of India's rare cases of marital  dissolution. 
    After nearly ten years of marriage, the wife of 2 Bombay textile  millionaire, Bhagvandas Chunilal [sic] Mehta asked for a legal sepa- ration. She testified that Mehta beat her, locked up her medicines  and used insulting language. Then Mehta took the stand with his  side of the story. His wife had become a disciple of Krishnamurti.  She had heard him call the sacred Hindu wedding verses ?(r)bunkum  and nonsense'. At another lecture Krishnamurti said to the males in  the audience: ?(r)Do you know what your relationship with your wife is?  We all know this relationship -sex, nagging, bullying, dominating,  the superficial responses of marriage . . . If you are dominant and  you make her your doormat, you say: I am happily married.' 
    As a result of listening to such teaching Mrs Mehta's attitude toward  her husband had changed sharply. ?(r)Before she was always strong, but  good,?°¿ said Mehta. ?(r)Afterwards . . . she became aggressive . . . I had  come to the conclusion that under the guise of teaching, Krishnamurti  was running after my wife.' 
    Resentment & Rupture. Declaring that her eyes had been opened  by Krishnamurti's teachings, Mrs Mehta had told her husband she  would live a celibate life and had moved into the dressing room.  Judge Eric Weston . . . denied Mrs Mehta's petition. He dryly  observed: I do not think there is any room for doubt that the  teachings [of Krishnamurti] suggesting revolt of the wife from her 
    218  
 
                   
The Shadow Deepens 
    doormat position must have had their effect upon her mind . . .  This led to her refusal to carry on marital relations with her husband,  which must have caused considerable resentment.'! 
    Rosalind knew a side of Krishna that was undreamed of by Raja. She  could read between the lines and believe that Mr Mehta might have some  truth on his side. Raja's only concern was to protect Krishna from such  notoriety. He went to considerable pains to persuade Time not to go on  with this story. It was the first unpleasant publicity since the 1920s. It  was quite disconcerting to him that the moment Krishna took off on  his own he had become embroiled in such an unsavoury situation. 
    Rosalind noted the obvious inaccuracies in the article while believing  that Nandini was a passive and innocent party. She realized it was quite  possible that Krishna had become infatuated without his affections being  reciprocated °– at least in kind. But she was still convinced he had not  been truthful about his own feelings. 
    In spite of the trouble Krishna had landed in during the previous  year Raja again refrained from accompanying him to India in 1950.  Krishna had often been the subject of various rumours, unfounded in  even a grain of reality. Rosalind's suspicions would not have occurred  to Raja. Besides, he had a lot of work to do in Ojai. The three of them  planned to meet in Europe in the spring. 
    When Rosalind arrived in London, her first trip there since 1936, she  met up with many old friends some of whom, like Kitty Shiva Rao, had  just come from India. She heard innuendoes that had been circulating  about Krishna and his new friends. She was deeply disturbed and was  further convinced that Krishna had refused to be truthful with her; for  his letters, in which he supposedly described to her every detail of his  life, did not correspond with what she heard. According to these reports  he was not always in the place that he claimed to her to be and Nandin1's  name was frequently linked with his. Krishna never mentioned her in  his letters to Rosalind. There was no one with whom Rosalind could  discuss her distress. For many years she had carried that secret part of  her life with ease for it had been relatively happy. Now in her misery  the burden was becoming unbearable. She lost weight and was unable  to shake off a feeling of malaise that had started on the transatlantic  voyage.. 
    Rosalind went on to Paris, where she was to meet Raja arriving from  California and Krishna arriving from India. On his arrival in Paris on  3 April Raja found her staying in a miserable hotel and immediately  moved her to a better one. He was shocked by her appearance and 
    219  
 
                             state of mind. When she started to tell him the stories she had heard  in London about Krishna, and her conviction that he was involved,  at least emotionally if not physically, with another woman, Raja was  puzzled by the depths of her distress. He could understand his own  distress at the probability of more notoriety, if Rosalind's suspicions  were correct. In his efforts to protect Krishna he would have put himself  in the position of covering up for him and this sort of hypocrisy was  highly repugnant to him. Then suddenly, in her frustration, the whole  story of her relationship with Krishna burst out. It was a tremendous  shock to Raja, to learn of the duration of the affair and particularly  to hear of the pregnancies and subsequent abortions. Looking back on  that traumatic discussion, Rosalind clearly remembered Raja's shock,  and then her shock at realizing that he had not known what she had  assumed Krishna to have told him in that letter long ago in Ommen, 
    a letter Raja had never seen. 
    Krishna arrived in Paris the next day. He was staying as usual with  old friends, the Suar°ß|s, in their lovely apartment overlooking the Eiffel  Tower. For years Carlo Suar°ß|s had been translating Krishna's books into  French. Both he and his wife Nadine were devoted to Krishna and they  were also very fond of Rosalind. It was difficult to keep her distress from  them. She told Krishna that she had to have a long talk with him, that  she had something important to tell him and asked him to meet her for  a walk. They walked for hours along the Seine, he enchanted by the  lovely spring day in Paris; she seeing nothing as she told him what she  had revealed to Raja. 
    Krishna was at first horrified and then angry, but after a while he  agreed to do as she asked, to talk to Raja about the situation. She felt it  was up to Krishna to make his own peace with Raja. Krishna promised  to do this, but whenever Rosalind asked him if he had yet done so he put  her off with some excuse. It was not the sort of confrontation he would  welcome, any more than he had been able to forewarn Mrs Besant  privately of his defection from Theosophy. Raja, however, assumed  from the way Rosalind had talked about her affair with Krishna, that  it was now over. He felt the most profound sympathy for her and in  no part of his heart held her to blame. He would always see her as a  victim, but Rosalind did not feel victimized. The fact that she had given  Krishna so much of her life and her care did not enter into her thinking.  She harped on one thing only: knowing the truth, and nothing Krishna  said convinced her she was getting it. 
    Rosalind returned to America on 19 April and visited me at 
    Swarthmore on her way back to Ojai. I knew then that she was 
    220  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    very unwell but was given no hint as to the cause and assumed it  was from purely physical origins. 
    When the spring term finished, [ met my father and Krinsh at Sarobia  to spend a few days with Mr Robbie. It was there that one morning  I overheard a terrible quarrel between them. Fortunately we were on  a floor to ourselves, Krinsh staying in what had once been Sara's  bedroom. My door was open and I heard all they said, the gist of it  being that Raja was once again threatening to walk out for good. After  many sharp exchanges Krishna begged Raja to stay and he agreed to  admit in writing that many times over the years he had lied to Raja and  betrayed him in ways he refused to discuss but that he would never do  so again. My father eventually calmed down, but lines of unhappiness  were etched even deeper in his face. 
    The three of us went to New York, where a friend had loaned us  her vacant apartment. I kept house during Krinsh's talks at Town  Hall. Willie had come from Ojai to handle the book sales at the  talks. As always, when surrounded by friends and followers, there  was an appearance of harmony. Indeed peace seemed to have been  restored. There were some pleasant times together, dinners with all  the de Manziarly sisters, my father laughing and teasing in his old  way and Krinsh joining in and sometimes remarking as he often used  to that ?(r)Rajagopal is in very good form and full of jokes.?°¿ It would be  many years before I would appreciate the depth of my father's power  of forgiveness. When I asked him years later how he could have gone  on in his relationship with Krinsh, he replied simply, ?°„What else could  I do? IfI left him suddenly there would have to be some explanation.  Should I have exposed him and Rosalind and brought all that trouble  on her and on her work in the school? No! I went on with my end  of the work and hoped he would behave after that.?°¿ But of course he  didn't. Things only got worse. 
    Raja became more than ever convinced that there were ?(r)two Krishnas',  the one who could speak with such insight about the human condition,  and the other shadowy Krishna who could deceive and betray a man  upon whom he depended and then beg his forgiveness without any  intention of rectifying matters. Perhaps it was easier for Raja to accept  that there were these two Krishnas. Some day Rosalind would arrive  at a similar conclusion. 
    After the New York talks Raja went directly back to Ojai while Krinsh  and I flew to Seattle to meet Rosalind, who had driven up from Ojai with  friends. Krinsh was to give a series of talks there, but first we went for ten  days' rest on the reclusive Orcas Island. In those peaceful surroundings, 
    221  
 
                      whatever tensions there were between Krinsh and my mother seemed  to subside. Perhaps by sharing with Raja the burden of her distrust of  Krinsh, Rosalind had found it possible to regain her own equilibrium.  Back in Seattle for the talks, one day she and Krinsh saw a beautiful  little white Ford convertible in a show window and phoned Raja to ask  him to buy it for them, which he did. 
    Krishna had decided to take a year of retreat in Ojai, ostensibly to  recuperate from general fatigue, but in fact he made a tremendous effort  to heal the rift between himself and Rosalind. On the surface, everything  began to appear much as before. Perhaps Rosalind allowed herself to  half-believe him or at least to push aside her distress, a tendency she  had when things became too difficult. 
    Raja meanwhile buried himself even deeper in his work. Aldous had  introduced him to his publisher at Harper & Row. For many years this  would be a fruitful and vital connection for Raja. He had spent the past  few years preparing manuscripts for publication as Aldous had been  encouraging him to do. Krishna showed not the slightest interest in  this project and would not even look at the manuscripts, but he urged  Raja to carry on, saying that was his part of the work and he had  no wish to be involved in it. Perhaps because of his commitment  to this new project, Raja was able to live with the hurt of Krishna's  deception. He also allowed himself to assume that the relationship  between Krishna and Rosalind was over as he understood Krishna to  have implied. Could he really have gone on with his association with  Krishna if he believed otherwise? Years later he told Mima Porter that  he would have understood people falling in love, that was only human,  but he could not understand Krishna leaving him in darkness all those  years, while living a life so contrary to the life which Raja had believed  he wished them all to live. Perhaps it is the loss of free choice in deciding  one's own course of action that is the worst aspect of being deceived. It  seems unrealistic, knowing the fearfulness in Krishna's nature, to have  expected that he could level with Raja. Raja, however, never saw himself  as an intimidating person. He had always tried to do everything Krishna  wanted and in the way he wanted it, talking over the details of their lives  with great thoroughness. That Krishna was actually agreeing to things  he didn't want would have been hard to guess, yet that 1s what he would  later complain of. That winter all three of them made an attempt to  return to some sort of normality, if anything about their lives could  ever be called normal. 
    Raja wrote to Rosalind, who had again gone east to spend Christmas 
    with me at Sarobia. 
    222  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    Jan 13, 1951  Dearest Rosalind, 
    Sorry not to have written to you before. There really wasn't much  to say from here. I still strictly mind my own business, and am very  busy with it. 
    The arrangements you made are working out very well. K. is busy  with his gardening. I think he wants to be an expert in growing roses  and all sorts of flowers. He seems very well and quite well fed, at  least, so he says. 
    I hope you are having a really restful and interesting time, and  that you are feeling all right. When you see Mr Robbie, please give  him my dearest love . . . and of course a big kiss to Radhie. 
    All my love, darling,  RAJA 
    My frequent weekends with Mr Robbie at Sarobia meant the most  to me in those two years in Pennsylvania. He suffered a stroke during  the second year which left him quite immobile, and | would sit with  him in his sunny study downstairs, from which the intimidating Pack  Wack had long since departed, and talk over my term papers. I treasured  those times with him, for his mind was as clear as ever but his paticnce  more mellow. 
    After two years there, I had come to teel Swarthmore was not the  right place for me and when the term was over I decided 1 would  transfer to a college in California. 
    After driving across America with David and our two aunts, I walked  happily into the living-room at Arya Vihara to find my father and Krinsh  engaged in yet another confrontation. My father was glaring in angry  silence while Krinsh, in evident frustration, was pummelling him on  the chest. After my nine months' absence, they scarcely took time off  to greet me. I drove down to the school in search of my mother and  was warmly greeted by a new member of our household; through Iris  Tree a large silvery mocha poodle called Coco had found a home with  Rosalind. As soon as I walked into the main hall, Coco, about whom  had heard much but had never met, rushed up and licked my face. My  mother, observing her dog's acceptance of her daughter, said she had  never done this with anyone else. Coco would prove to be a new and  much-needed bond in our family. 
    When Krishna returned to India in that autumn of 1951, Raja decided  to accompany him. His mother was getting old and he wanted to sce 
    223  
 
                   
 
      her again. He wanted also to see for himself what was going on around  Krishna in India. He went ahead to Europe by train and boat and was  to meet Krishna, who preferred to fly, in England. 
    Whatever Raja's disillusion with Krishna, his affection for Rosalind  had not diminished as his letters to her show. 
    Chicago Sept 13, 1951 
    Dearest Rosalind and Radha, 
    I telt very sad to leave you both and feel very homesick. 
    Thank you both for a really nice resttul time I had at Wrightwood. 
    You will be back in Ojai tomorrow and I'll be in New York. I am  going further and further away.  All my love to you both, Darlings °–  RAJY 
    And a few days later: 
    Rosalind Dearest, 
    It was so nice talking over the phone with you last Saturday. You  did not sound too well. I do hope, darling, you will be sensible about  yourself& take good care in every way °– 
    I shall write to you often, & don't forget to send for me should  there be any emergency - Is Krishna's knee better °– I hope he will rest properly till he has  to leave. Give him & all my love.  With dearest love to you,  RAJY 
    It took Rosalind a month to answer: 
    October 31, 1951  Darling Raja,  The time goes so quickly that I find it hard to write every week  as I see you do. 
    In Hollywood we both went to Dr Lupica and I must say [ like  him very much; he has been very helpful. K did his immigration  business with Willie . . . After we returned to Ojai K got his back  dislocated and we had quite a time with it . . . The Huxleys were  here last weekend and we took him back last Monday to Dr Lupica  and he fixed it and strapped it and it is slowly getting better. | was  quite worried if he would be able to go off as he was quite crippled  from it. Dr Lupica said it is partly due to old age and he would have 
    224  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    to watch it. I hope 1t is all right while he 1s with you in London . . .  The school work seems to take all of one's time and energy and  am trying to get things in a condition where it will not always be  like this. 
    No matter what their emotional state they both were aware always  of their responsibility for Krishna's well-being, and this continued to  be a primary link in their relationship with each other. There was also  frequent mention of Coco. 
    Rosalind's involvement with the school and the people around it  was becoming ever deeper. Lili Kraus, the great Hungarian pianist,  had come the previous spring for the Ojai music festival; Lili became  one of the pivotal points in Rosalind's life, not only because of the deep  affection between them, but also because of Lili's generous sharing of her  enormous talent with the school. She would soon be staying for several  months at Arya Vihara with her husband, Otto Mandl. (Rosalind later  arranged for Lili's favourite 1916 Steinway to be brought to Ojai for  Lili's use on her annual visits.) 
    Aldous and Maria still came regularly and Aldous was now on the  school board. The school took its motto Aun Aprendo, (?(r)I am still  learning') from the graduation address he gave there. The philosopher  Gerald Heard gave several talks, as did Alan Watts, the well-known  writer and lecturer on Buddhism, who later sent his daughter to the  school. A letter from Alan Watts to Blanche Matthias dated 16 March  1951, gives his impression of his first encounter with Ojai. 
    Dear Blanche, 
    I thought I would . . . thank you for your introduction to Rosalind  Rajagopal. We met again at the end of our stay in L. A. and her husband  guided us up to Ojal. 
    I must say I am enormously impressed with Rajagopal. 1 don't  know when I have met such a thoroughly integrated person, at once  so relaxed and so keen in mind . . . and it was a rare pleasure to enjoy  the company of such an amazingly natural human being °– especially  after meeting, in L.A., so many would-be philosophers, each with  a separate axe to grind. 
    We visited the Happy Valley School, and I had a very interesting  hour's talk with the children. Quite a group! They are wonderfully  alert and free without being offensive, and I like the atmosphere of  the place very much. 
    Most sincerely,  ALAN  
 
                      There was a lengthy list of eminent visitors in all fields who added  an exceptional cultural depth to the school. 
    Being physically close again that whole year in Ojai had done much  to heal the breach between Krishna and Rosalind, at least in Krishna's  mind, as his letters to her would show when he left. He told her  that the struggle had brought them inwardly closer, that she must  not let sadness or anything else come between them and that she  was and always would be in his heart °– that they were together in  their love. 
    His letters reveal the physical wrench he felt at leaving her and are  a series of impassioned pleas to maintain their relationship at all costs.  Yet his words reflect, along with his love, a physical and psychic  dependency on her. He feels her sitting next to him on the plane  and sharing with him the drifting clouds and the blue sky. He says  they have been through too much to let anything happen to this  inward closeness. He also admonishes her to take regular walks as  much for Coco's sake as for hers and to brush and feed the dog  properly. 
    When Krishna met Raja in London he reported back to Rosalind,  writing of Raja's cheerful spirits, ?(r)There's a briskness about him which  is nice.?°¿ He also assured her that of all the dogs he encountered in the  park Coco was the aristocrat. And finally he promised that everything  would be all right and he would not be influenced then or later. He  wrote her a few paragraphs every day and mailed the letter after a  week or so, a pattern he would maintain in his absences for the next  fifteen years, though the absences would become more frequent and  longer. 
    Rosalind had asked Raja to trv to meet Lili Kraus and her husband  in Paris. Lili sent Rosalind her fresh and entirely innocent description  of this first meeting. 
    Darling Rosalind, 
    You must have served our Lord in many lives in many ways to 
    His great joy and satisfaction to have been granted the incomparable 
    privilege to share your life with two such creatures as Krishnamurti 
    and Rajagopal, a Saint and an Angel, a fighting angel at that. 
    Never will I forget this sign of true friendship and love which 
    enabled us to see ?(r)him' what must I call him, this pure light, this 
    heavenly serenity, this sweet child with the grace of a fairy prince, 
    the politeness of a knight; the wisdom of another, the only real 
    world; this diamond, flower, bird, butterfly °– all in one; promise 
    226  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    and fulfillment, all in one; this living miracle which goes among us  by the name of Krishnamurti? Do, darling Rosalind, tell Rajagopal,  when you write to him, our deepest thanks; do also tell him that  we found him so sweet in his fierceness! You see, by rights we had  no business to see K at all, as we had no permission of the police.  The airfield at Orly for transit flights is . . . a border only and  the passengers are not allowed to overstep it . . . Mme Suar°ß|s had  permission and was therefore entitled to have tea with them in that  restaurant. But we couldn't get in there. So Rajagopal brought K in  to a ?(r)no man's land', which the police allowed us to enter too and  that's how we met. I am sure it wasn't at all easy for darling Raja to  arrange all that °– and he was so sweet and angry because they made  such a fuss for really nothing. We saw them for about 15 minutes; an  unforgettable, incomprehensible eternity of keenest, rarest happiness,  indeed, there could not possibly have been a more auspicious, more  promising omen for our Ojai stay, for our association, than this  meeting. K spoke so warmly, tenderly about you and about our  future in our joint work at the school, as if he would have read my  own thoughts! 
    Darling Rosalind, thank you for your . . . settlement of the matter.  A rock rolled off our chests . . . You will be as happy when you hear  the piano as you can't possibly imagine! . . . 
    Love and all good wishes.  Ever,  LILI 
    While Krishna kept up his repeated reassurances to Rosalind from India,  we can infer?(r) from Raja's first letter, he had his own troubles. 
    Madras December 11, 1951  You must have had all the news from the usual Source about the  flight from London and what has been happening here since we  arrived on the 24th of November. Krishna had a slight fever but he  is all right now. I also had something or the other for a couple of  days . . . I saw Raja [Jinarajadasa] once or twice. He is quite cordial,  though seemed quite surprised that the Happy Valley Foundation is  still continuing and doing excellent work. He asked me a hundred  questions in a rather supercilious manner. I also saw Rukmini and her  Schools . . . I have seen my mother and family too. She has grown  very, very old, can't hear or see very well. Except generally in many  ways conditions here are worse than I imagined and I certainly feel 
    227      quite ?(r)lost'. T hope you are well and are taking good care of yourself 
    and not forgetting the promise to write or cable me should anything 
    turn out to be serious with you. 
    All my love, 
    RAJA 
    Ever since Krishna's defection from the Theosophical Society there  had been an estrangement between him and Jinarajadasa. While the two  Rajas had maintained their early affection, the politics involved caused  some strain. 
    Krishna meanwhile kept on with his daily letters to Rosalind, evi- dently confident that she was pacified and accepting his reassurances. He  said, ?(r)a molehill was made into a mountain and now even the molehill has  gone. Be assured everything is all right.?°¿ He also commented on Raja's  talk with Jinarajadasa but left himself out of it. He said Jinarajadasa  was overly upset about things that happened twenty-five years ago and  should be more ready to forgive. 
    In the early 1930s, under the Star Publishing Trust, a substantial  house on six acres had been built for Krishna to stay in and to house the  work which continued even in his absence. The place was called Vasanta  Vihar and was across the river from the Theosophical Compound at  Adyar. Krishna would walk along the river in the evenings, on rare  occasions accompanied for a short distance by Raja. Continuing alone  beyond the Elphinstone Bridge toward the sea, Krishna avoided, with  great deliberation, setting foot in Adyar. He had sworn he would not  return there after Mrs Besant died. He made a continual issue of being  unwelcome and locked out from the apartments she had said were to  be his for life. 
    Raja did not share these sentiments and often went across to Adyar  for a pleasant evening with his friends or a musical performance.  Sitting home alone at Vasanta Vihar, Krishna faithfully reported all  this to Rosalind, adding cryptic comments about the lust for power in  the name of the Master, building schools and organizations, obvious  references to the Theosophical activities at Adyar. 
    Just before Christmas Raja had a letter from Rosalind telling him  that an examination had determined she needed major surgery. She  intended to go ahead without him or Krishna there. She wanted only  to have Erma and me with her. Raja and Krishna both reacted with  worry and solicitude about her health: 
    228  
 
                   
The Shadow Deepens 
    Darling Rosalind,  By the time this letter reaches you, you'll have been through it all 
    -and I shall be thinking of you, loving you, and praying for your  quick recovery & safe return home. So very sorry that this had to be  when [ am so far away °– but everyone there near you, loves you &  would have done everything to make it all bearable and easy °– Please  do not plunge back into school activities and worries.  All our love, Darling,  RAJA 
    Krishna's letters indicated that he had been given no advance warning  by Raja about the operation. Once he found out, he told Rosalind he had  sat all day and thought of her, loved her and, with Raja, prayed for her.  If all this were true one can visualize a rather touching scene of the two  men together on one side of the globe, drawn close in their common  concern for the woman they both loved on the opposite side. 
    In this same letter, Krishna allowed himself to be distracted from his  concern for Rosalind by his annoyance with her over an accusation she  had made. He objected to her use of the word, infatuated. regarding his  feeling for Nandini. Yet in an oblique way he admitted his attraction  by arguing that the word ?(r)infatuated' was still too strong. He claimed  it was only a flutter, if even that. But Rosalind would continue to have  unwitting indications from friends that he was lying to her sull. 
    Krishna portrayed to Rosalind an amiable and close relationship  between him and Raja; praising his work, his advice and showing con- cern for his occasional illnesses. He also expressed his irritation when  he felt Raja did something foolish like taking a hot bath and then sitting  under a fan. Of course, Krishna related, he got another cold. This cold  led to feverand several days in bed requiring Krishna's nursing. 
    In spite of Krishna's concern for Raja's health, as usual Raja cured  himself in his own way and not at all as Krishna would approve. Each  of them considered the other a bit foolhardy in their care of themselves.  And in their separation from Rosalind, both their bouts of illness became  more frequent. 
    Rosalind Darling, 
    I have not been able to write to vou during the past 3 weeks, as 
    I have been in bed with constant fever, not high, and a racking dryv 
    cough -& headache °– K must have written whatever news there 
    has been. I have been thinking of you constantly and . . . T am suill 
    anxious.  
 
                   
 
    What about Lili Kraus °– If you really think it wise & would like 
    to have her & her husband stay at A.V. with you, & thereby make 
    things easy for you in connection with your work, 1 won't be in 
    your way °– I know you will do whatever you think best & wise, 
    especially knowing anything I have said or not said has been because 
    I have only thought ahead, of you & your welfare, about which you 
    have not yourself thought or considered, sufficiently or at all. 
    Dearest, take good care of yourself, you are a very precious person, 
    and you must get well for everybody's sake & especially for Radha's 
    & mine - 
   All my love to you, 
    RAJA 
    When Nandini and Pupul came to Madras, Krishna no longer tried  to keep their visits a secret from Rosalind. Instead, along with his  explanation that there was no more ?(r)flutter' at all, he enclosed a perfectly  circumspect note to him from Nandini requesting an interview. He  also stated that he had shown Raja the note and that Raja enjoyed  the company of the sisters and was the one who invited them often  to lunch and for evening outings. Krishna was starting to use Raja as  a blind, on one hand leading Rosalind to believe that it was Raja who  showed an interest in being with the sisters, when in fact Krishna made  arrangements for Raja to go somewhere with Pupul, leaving Nandini  behind. Raja was in an uncomfortable position, aware of what was  happening but unable, without showing indiscretion, to do anything  about it. 
    The situation became more uncomfortable for Raja in Bombay, where  he and Krishna stayed on their way to London. Here they were the guests  of Ratansi (the rich Indian with whom Nitya had once hoped to go into  business). Krishna continued to lay the blame for any contact with the  sisters on Raja. One day he arranged for Raja's absence from the house  by urging him to take a long and tiresome train journey to the outskirts  of Bombay to visit an old friend. Krishna wanted the field to be clear  for an important interview with Nandini's father-in-law, who wanted  him to persuade her to go back to her husband. Krishna reported this  to Rosalind and admitted that he had insisted Nandini be there too and  had then told her it was her life and not his and up to her to make up her  own mind. He closed the letter to Rosalind with the usual reassurances  of his love. 
    Raja wrote from London a week later. He was always extremely 
    careful about putting anything in writing, especially to Rosalind, whom 
    230  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    he believed to be rather careless about leaving letters around. But when  he returned to Ojai we would hear how upset he had been by the  situation around Krishna, the way of life in India, so contrary to the  relatively austere and quiet years in Ojai. There had been devotees too  in QOjai, but not often in the house, and certainly not in Krishna's  bedroom, where in India they frequently gathered while he ate and  dressed. 
    Rosalind Darling, 
    [ hope you received the short note [ sent you from Bombay just  before we left. We have been staying quietly at Mrs Bindley's, she is  very kind, the house peaceful, & the food good. K gets just what he  wants & has been quite well. I want to be alone & quiet for a couple  of months & sort myself out, I need to badly after my visit to India 
    °– can't write about all this to you & you will understand I am sure.  About July or so I shall slowly return to Ojai. K had better go to  Wrightwood for May & June, I think he ought to be quiet & alone,  & not get involved in Ojai activities. That's my feeling & you & he  will do whatever you think best °– After July he may want to give a  few talks in Ojai before returning to India in September via Europe,  as he wants and plans to do.  [ hope you are better now tho' I hear you are again overdoing  school etc. Please, please take good care of yourself. At least you  won't have me round your neck in any way. 
    I was delighted to hear various accounts of your announcement of  Radha's engagement °– Hope they are both really happy about it.  All my love, Darling,  RAJA  Please do-not leave my letters about. I feel nervous to write. 
    That February of 1952, Jimmy and I asked Rosalind to announce our  engagement at the school's Valentine party. My father had written to  me from London: 
    Dearest Radha, 
    .. . I shall write to him [Jimmy] soon and tell him how glad  am about him and you. It is good to hear that you feel right about  him and really happy . . . When are your exams? 
    Don't work too hard, just enough . . . unless you really enjoy  your studies. I only hope that you intend to complete college both  of you & get your degrees °– you need not do brilliantly but it would 
    231  
 
                             be wise & good to finish what you have begun. [ hope Jim feels that  way too. Of course | am very happy about you, darling, and I love  you always very dearly . . .  All my love to you, darling  ) DADDY 
    Krinsh also gave his blessings, still addressing me as Kittums. He  said he was really so glad, very glad 2and happy about me and Jimmy  but it wasn't a great surprise for he had thought, all along, it would  be that way. 
    And I believe he really had from the very first. 
    With Raja's approval, Lili Kraus and her husband Otto Mandl had  been spending the past few months at Arya Vihara. Raja understood  how much this meant to Rosalind, even though he worried that as  always she was overdoing it. Krishna would not normally have minded  this arrangement, but he would later feel that Lili and Otto were part of  the obstacle to his returning which Rosalind unexpectedly raised. On  the grounds that her health was still not back to normal and that the  strain of closing the school for summer was very great, she asked that  he wait until June to return to Ojai. This had never happened before  and it evidently did not occur to Krishna that he himself might be the  cause of strain on her and that she wished to get through her school  year without this added burden. He acquiesced in her request but made  mournful allusions to the gloomy weather in London °– that his hands  were so cold he could hardly write, and nostalgic allusions to California  in the spring, hoping she saw the beauty of Ojai and rejoiced. While  Krishna would never have stated any resentment about Lili being in  Arya Vihara, there is an occasional subtle reference to her presence  there and a hope that this was not the cause for Rosalind's fatigue.  Rosalind knew Krishna well enough °– and he knew she did °– to get the  message that he was unhappy at being kept away from Ojai, having to  walk round and round in a dreary little park (although there are larger  parks in London which are very beautiful in April) and go to boring  movies with Raja. He was distinctly out of sorts. 
    She suddenly changed her mind, relented, and as far as Krishna was  concerned everything was well again. The nearer the time came for  them to meet, the more loving his letters became and India and those  he had left there seemed to recede utterly from his thoughts, at least  those he expressed to Rosalind. 
    Once back in Ojai Krishna appeared to be quite charmed by Lili, as  indeed who would not be, and he even made a point of sitting in the 
    232  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    patio when she practised the piano to show how much he enjoyed her  playing. 
    In addition to being one of the greatest pianists of our time, Lili was  one of the most extrordinary people we had met. She had an intense  beauty, and a vibrancy of spirit that not only flowed through her playing  but warmed all those in her presence, and this quality never diminished,  not even in her last days of life. 
    When the Japanese took Singapore and subsequently Java, Liii, her  husband and children were on a concert tour in the Dutch East Indies.  They were incarcerated in a prison camp for three years; for the first  year she and her husband were separated from the children. A vindictive  Dutch woman, threatened by severe beating for having had an affair  with a Japanese officer, declared that Lili was a spy, thus she was put  into the subterranean cells of the Kempe Tai, the equivalent force of  the Gestapo. 
    Dr Mandl forced his way seven or eight times to the offices of the  Kempe Tai, maintaining that whatever charges were to be made could  only concern him, since Lili was totally apolitical: an artist and a mother 
    -nothing else.  One of Lili's co-prisoners told her husband that the guards had  threatened to cut off her hands. Fortunately, just in time, the camp  was visited by a high-ranking officer who had once heard her play in  Tokyo. Not only did he avert this unspeakable tragedy, but he saw that  she had a piano and reunited the family, though he did not release them.  They lost almost everything material in the war, but Lili's existence was  not dependent on material things as she would prove. When she left  Ojai after her stay at Arya Vihara, Lili wrote to Rosalind: 
    You remember after having met Krishnaji and Rajagopal in Paris, I  wrote to you saying, how well you must have served the Lord to  be chosen as their life's companion. Having had the never fading  joy of living with you all these months I can understand so easily  why you should have been granted that privilege. 1 will not make  you blush and wince and wiggle by telling you of all the virtues  which make the very air round you sweet for me to breathe; let me  just tell this much, that in all hours, days, weeks we spent together  never once was my intention, taste, desire in discord with yours,  not on one single point. All you wanted, or did, or thought, or  felt, or planned I found good, right, reasonable, lovable in perfect  harmony with my reactions. So that now, being away I am there,  living in you, as it were, except, my poor sweet love, that all such 
    233  
 
                   
 
    burden, work, problems, difficulties as doubtless have to be coped  with are left for your shoulders to bear, like always. I only having  the picture of you living in Arya Vihara with beloved Krinsh and  beautiful, incomparable and ever unique-Coco . . . 
    I embrace and kiss you with all the tenderness and love of my  heart.  Ever,  LILI 
    And Lili's husband, Otto Mandl, also expressed his gratitude for their  stay 1n Qjai: 
    June 7th, ??52  My dear Friend Rosalind! 
    People tease me for being an optimist °– But even so I had nearly  given up hope that in this hife of mine I would still be able to find  a place where I can put my roots in the ground . . . We both feel  without hesitation or doubt that we have found our home, our new  and lasting home in your nearness, whatever roof you may ultimately  choose for us in Ojai valley. The loving care you bestowed on us, the  full confidence and 1ts echo, the deep understanding you had for our  needs and wishes, this and much more for which I have no words  but an unfading memory, cannot have been a passing phase . . . 
    I will in London and Paris . . . search for every gleam of hope. for  a solution of the Famine problem which seems to worry Krishnaji  as it worries Aldous. Oh, I know only too well, how Krishnaji (I  hear his words, his very fiery voice) will say: ?(r)What is the use of all  your material remedies, your calculations, your statistics and your  planning, unless you can improve the heart of man?' Let me try just  the same, especially to improve my own mind, to see, think more  clearly, more lovingly, more detachedly. 
    One thing I found in your spiritual atmosphere, found it for the first  time in my old age: that the thirty or forty years, since my youth must  have made a rather bad old creature out of me °– this I recognized one  morning, after having lived 3 weeks in Arya Vihara, when suddenly I  felt different, cleaner, unburdened, carefree, with a better conscience  toward my future; and like a revelation I knew: ?(r)That's how I always  felt when I was 16, 19, 25! had lost the memory of it and I must have  been sliding down away from the ?(r)Right Way' into an entanglement  of worries, of impatient efforts, of patching up weaknesses, of futile  vanities °– and suddenly it seemed that fresh strength had been given 
    234  
 
                         The Shadow Deepens 
    me to start anew . . . to see once more with a clear mind, to strive  for truth, for unity with the universe, as I did 40 years ago.  [ had no intention to tell you this when I started the letter . . . It  may not be understandable to you, and still I would have hidden the 
    most important thing that happened between us, had I not mentioned  it. Yours with a happy heart,  OTTO 
    Lili and Otto were not the only ones to have these feelings about  Rosalind. Most people who came to Arya Vihara attributed the healing  atmosphere there solely to Krishna, but not all of them. Beato also,  would one day express her feelings about my mother. 
    As I think of friends who influenced my life, I know that your  mother has meant more to me than anyone else. I doubt ifI could  have hung on had I not met her, for I was in deep confusion, and  she lifted my orientation towards the spiritual life. Being near her  cured me of fanaticism and false worship where the higher life is  concerned, and though Krishnamurti's words meant a great deal to  me, [ understood more of what he said because she lived the actuality  of his thoughts. 
    It started sixty years ago at a party when I saw her glance at your  father with the most beautiful of smiles, as if the heavens opened and  there was no evil in the world, and that glow from her has remained  with me ever since. 
    There were times when in despair I went to her for comfort and her  presence clarified the problem and lifted me into another dimension  .. . My life has not only changed living near her, but in the darkness  that comes down at times on most of us, she has been the light.2 
    That light was in danger of dimming. Even as close a friend as Beato  could not see the cause of Rosalind's increasing unhappiness. It would  have been difficult for many people to accept that anyone living so close  to Krishna could have problems at all. Many years ago Raja had flinched  when a devotee had given him a vigorous handshake. ?(r)I have arthritis,'  he explained. ?(r)You have arthritis when you live so close to Him?!?°¿ was  the incredulous response. 
    Raja returned early in July to California to find his immediate family  in a tailspin. Jimmy and I who had been engaged since February now  wanted, for a very good reason, to get married right away. Not yet 
    235  
 
                      knowing the story of my mother's secret pregnancies, I was surprised  to find that she took my news so hard. I looked forward most anxiously  to my father's arrival from Europe and my expectations were not in  vain. Raja was able to set aside his own worries enough to reassure  us that all he was concerned about was that we really loved each other  and wanted to marry. He would continue to support me through my  final year of college, as he was anxious that I should finish, and Jimmy's  father agreed to do the same for him so we had no immediate financial  problems. 
    Our wedding was a happy occasion. Both family and friends had long  felt that we were perfectly suited for each other and whatever tensions  hung about somehow floated away that day. Even Krinsh who, to my  knowledge, had never gone to anyone's wedding, was at ours and in  his most positive and beneficent mood. Perhaps his attitude about such  things had just mellowed, but he seemed genuinely happy about this  marriage. John Ingelman performed the service for he and Hilda had  been the first people to see me and I had always been exceptionally close  to them. Because John was a priest in the Liberal Catholic Church the  service would be that, as Rosalind's and Raja's had been in London, but  both Jimmy and I insisted on certain religious phrases being removed  which gave John considerable trouble with his bishop. 
    We honeymooned briefly in a charming cottage on the Santa Barbara  riviera, belonging to one of Krinsh's elderly spinster devotees. She had  offered the house to Rosalind and Krinsh for the summer. 
    Krishna still maintained his long-standing position of having no involve- ment with organizing or publishing his work. Raja had completed the  editing of the first book with Harper's, a slender volume, Education and  the Significance of Life, published in 1953, soon followed by The First and  Last Freedom, with a foreword by Aldous Huxley and then the three  volumes entitled Commentaries on Living. On these last, Raja finally  allowed the publishers to include his name as editor. Both Krishna's  notebooks and his verbatim talks needed meticulous and patient editing,  which Raja had spent most of his time doing for the past twenty-five  years. He had always kept himself in the background even though,  from the beginning, Krishna made it amply and frequently clear that  all publishing was entirely Raja's domain. Raja saw to the contracts and  had an excellent working relationship with the editors, a relationship  in which Krishna showed only the most cursory interest. He was to  reverse this position drastically. 
    23?®¶  
 
                         21 
    The Letter 
    Krishna's year of retreat in Ojai had done much to heal his relationship  with Rosalind, but he still felt it necessary to convince her of his loyalty.  Shortly before his departure from Ojai in autumn 1952, he gave her the  pencil copy ofa letter he had written to Nandini. He said he was going  to carry the original, of which this was an exact duplicate, to deliver in  person. This gesture of Krishna's did not mean as much to Rosalind as  he might have hoped. She still remembered the letter he had written in  Ommen, which she now knew had never been delivered to Raja. 
    Thinking that this was very likely to happen again, Rosalind told  Raja that Krishna had written a letter to Nandini and asked that he see  that it was properly delivered. She did not show him her copy and he  was not aware of its existence. 
    Always afraid of indiscreet letters falling into the wrong hands, with  Krishna's approval, Raja agreed to carry the letter among his papers  for safe keeping until they arrived in India. There, unless Rosalind  advised otherwise, he would give it to Krishna to deliver. While Raja  did not wish to involve himself further in the matter, he hoped that the  situation would be resolved as quickly and quietly as possible. He well  understood the strain Rosalind had been under and sympathized, but her 
    -relationship-with Krishna, in addition to the personal anguish it caused  him, had greatly complicated his professional life. Now the last thing he  ~ wanted was to be caught in another triangle, that of Krishna, Rosalind  and Nandini. He had tried all these years, as part of what he felt to be his 
    -duty toward Krishna and ?(r)the Work', to protect both from the muddles  and messes that Krishna too often generated around him. He did not  ?°„regard this letter as a prudent course for Krishna to take and hoped  Rosalind would encourage Krishna to drop the whole matter. Raja was  wearying of these complications and would gradually withdraw more  and more. He found travelling with Krishna and arranging the details  of his life an increasing source of irritation. 
    From a later vantage point, one can see that the old cornerstone of  their lives together had crumbled disastrously. But at the time they all  
 
                             failed to clarify between themselves exactly what the new cornerstone,  if any, would be. Raja had believed that there was a bond of affection  between the three of them that excluded none of them. The physical  relationship between Krishna and Rosalind had upset the balance. For  him or Rosalind to have become involved with an outside party would  not have had the same impact on their lives. For Krishna to become  involved with anyone at all was in contradiction to the chaste publicimage  he himself had established and to which Raja had lent his trust. Raja felt  that a severe transgression of this trust had taken place but that this  transgression had ended. If he had read the letter, at least the copy that  Krishna left with Rosalind (which may or may not have resembled the  original), Raja would have realized that in Krishna's mind the affair with  Rosalind was far from over. For in that copy of his letter to Nandini,  Krishna stated that there was a woman in his life who had been there  for more than twenty years and that such a relationship was not to be  broken and he didn't intend to break it. He went on to apologize if his  letters or conversations had given a misleading impression and advised 
    Nandini not to build around false hope. 
    As usual, Raja left for London somewhat ahead of Krishna, from  where he wrote to Rosalind before Krishna left Ojai to join him. 
    2nd October, 1952 
    Thank you for your very dear letter which I received on the boat 
    just before sailing. 1 hope you are feeling a little rested. Please don't 
    exhaust yourself. It is better to live doing little than to die doing too 
    much. 
    That special letter is still with me, and I hope to hear from you 
    definitely about it once again before anything is done. 
    London is bitterly cold and dreary. Please tell Krishna to be warmly 
    dressed. Usually he likes to carry his overcoat on one arm and his coat 
    on the other, and freeze and look miserable. 
    Please pat Coco for me, and tell her how much I love her. She is 
    some Coco °– one can't forget her easily. 
    All my love, 
    RAJA 
    Krishna continued with his daily writings to Rosalind. Ardent affir- mations of his love for her were interspersed with descriptions of people  and scenery and details of their daily existence. Kitty Shiva Rao and her  brother-in-law Sir B.N. Rao, Indian Ambassador to the United Nations,  were on the plane with them as far as Rome. They both stopped off in 
    238  
 
                   
The Letter 
    Alexandria to visit the Suar°ß|s, who had a villa there in addition to their 
    apartment in Paris. (They would shortly, under Nasser, lose most of 
    their money and all their holdings in Egypt). Krishna walked with 
    Carlo Suar°ß|s along the beach in Alexandria while Raja slept. That 
    Krishna's concern for his public image was as strong as Raja assumed 
    it to be was graphically tested a few days later. There came what was 
    for Krishna a nerve-racking episode. Ready to depart from Bombay in 
    Cairo airport, they were temporary victims of the domestic tensions in 
    Egypt. In customs every shoe and every pocket was felt and searched. 
    Officials read all the letters that Raja was carrying but by some miracle 
    missed the one intended for Nandini and also the one Krishna was in 
    the process of writing to Rosalind and had not yet mailed. He mailed 
    it from Bombay, expressing his resolve never again to be caught with 
    such a letter on his person. He thanked God they hadn't found the 
    letter to Nandini either. Before closing, he resumed the pattern of 
    his previous letters from India, stressing Raja's close association with 
    Pupul and Nandini, while he, Krishna stayed home alone writing to  Rosalind, feeling her closeness and his love for her and asserting that  all the ado about ?(r)that other person' was faded and forgotten. 
    For the next four months Rosalind was given almost daily excuses  for why the letter had still not been delivered to Nandini. At first  Raja was the reason. Krishna claimed that Raja refused to turn over  the letter saying it should not be delivered as it would cause gossip and  involve him and Rosalind. Krishna assured Rosalind that he tried each  day to bring up the subject and got nowhere. He said he would not  give up, even if it meant writing another letter and sending i1t without  Raja's approval. This he somehow never got around to doing. By  mid-December he had a new excuse. Nandini's health was poor and  Krishna was worried that she did not have the strength to read such  a letter, so delivery would have to be postponed. After that Krishna  and Raja went to Benares and from there, according to Krishna,  it was not safe to mail the letter as the mail was easily tampered  with. 
    Rosalind had long since realized that the letter would not be delivered 
    -and was too involved with her work to give it much more thought.  In Krishna's absence the whole matter lost its significance. She made  no effort to communicate with Raja about it. Later, Raja claimed  he had long before handed it over to Krishna, there had not been  those endless discussions and he forgot about it, never suspecting  that he had been worked into Krishna's dissemblance. What had evi~  -dently occupied a considerable amount of Krishna's thought had been  239  
 
                             pushed to the background by both Rosalind and Raja. By February  the subject was dropped for ever and no more was heard of the  letter. 
    Raja's health was poor that year. Krishna thought Raja had strained  something doing yoga, which he had been persuaded by Krishna to  take up. He found it hard to swallow and developed an intermittent  pain in his oesophagus. This would become a chronic problem with  serious side effects and I would later wonder if the cause was not yoga  but that there had just been too many things for him to ?(r)swallow'. He  gave only a hint of this in his letters to my mother: 
    Poona Jan 12, 1953  Rosalind Darling, 
    I received the only letter, since I arrived in India, that you have  written. I have been. I know, very remiss, and I am very sorry.  Not a day has passed without my thinking of you with deep love  . . . Please remember letters get lost here very easily, or opened &  thrown away °– So write guardedly & do not forget to glue and seal  properly. 
    Of course 1 shall be there for Radha's graduation or even before 
    °– Hope all goes well °– Thinking of you constantly with deepest  love,  RAJA 
    Bombay March 1, 1953  Thank you, Darling, for the 2 cables. The first one made me rather  worried & then a few hours later came the good news. I am very  happy, all is well. 
    How is the new Baby & how is her dear, darling mother? To think  of Radhi with a baby girl. Incredible!! What name has the Baby? I  wonder if Radha & Jimmy liked my suggestion? 
    All my love, always,  RAJA  [handwritten on the bottom of typed letter]  Things are not right for me here. I am afraid finally so. Well - That is the end of the long matter. However I shall go on - 
   Krishna made it clear to Rosalind too. in his own way that things  were not right between him and Raja. He was justifiably indignant  that Raja failed to inform him when Jimmy's and my baby was born.  It was twelve days after the news had come, before Raja mentioned 
    240  
 
                         The Letter 
    it to him, a clear indication of estrangement, large or small, between  them. 
    Yet another cause for conflict was on the horizon. Lady Emily  wanted to publish Candles in the Sun, the autobiography of her years  with Theosophy and Krishna. Once again Raja would be the scapegoat  during the period of bitter controversy that would ensue.  
 
                   
22 
    Candles in the Storm 
    As he had promised, Raja returned to California in time for my  graduation from Scripps College and Jimmy's graduation from Pomona  in June 1953. The two colleges were adjacent and we had lived for the  past year in a small apartment in Claremont. In July we moved with our  baby, Catherine Anjali, to northern California, where Jimmy worked  as a physicist at the Atomic Energy Commission for a year before we  both went on to graduate school at Berkeley. 
    There was also another change in the family: Louis Zalk's wife had  recently died and Erma and Louis were married that summer of 1953.  They were 1n their late sixties and were to enjoy ten years of happily  married life. We would remain very close to them both. Louis had  always been a strong presence in our lives and his devotion to both  Krishna and Raja had been steadfast. 
    Rosalind had been offered a house on the south edge of Point Lobos  in the Carmel Highlands, and she and Krinsh spent a good part of that  summer there, with us joining them on weekends. 
    At fifty-eight, Krishna still wanted the same physical relationship  with Rosalind that had started twenty years before and which, in spite  of the recent contentiousness between them, had not, as Raja believed,  yet terminated. The house on Point Lobos stood in isolated scenic  beauty, opening on to the State Park and hanging over a churning  sea below. The bark of sea-lions was constant above the waves and  the tide pools harboured an array of exquisite sea creatures. Except for  our visits on the weekends, there was every opportunity for intimacy.  On Rosalind's side, their relationship had become a habit like the habit  of a marriage that is no longer good but not bad enough to struggle  through an ending. But at times like this, away from the pressures  of the school, she still felt resurrectional sparks of their old love and  Krishna made every effort to fan these embers. He acted toward me as  he always had and assumed a grandfatherly role toward Tinka (as we had  nicknamed our baby). He was pleased that her middle name was Anjalj,  my father's suggestion, and explained that it meant in Sanskrit literally 
    242  
 
                         Candles in the Storm 
    ' the space between the hands when held together in greeting, or infinite  peace. I felt at times that we were once again the family we had always  been, which expanded under the same tension to incorporate my father  on his infrequent appearances. While Raja and Rosalind expressed deep  affection towards each other in their letters, their personalities caused  conflict in direct communion, exacerbated by the presence of Krinsh,  who often went back and forth between them like a child intent on  dividing and ruling. Ostensibly trying to make peace, the comments  he repeated and the tales he told inevitably led to worse arguments.  My father's disposition became more and more irascible and even his  close friends began to wonder at this change, making it all the easier  for Krishna in the near future to draw on their sympathy.  Krishna and Raja left again for Europe and India in the autumn.  Krishna's letters began to express a more philosophical tone than they  had in the past, but he still included his declarations of love. He entreated  Rosalind to remain open to everything, including their love and to feel  their closeness.  Raja was busy in Europe arranging foreign translations and copy- rights, and meeting with the editor from Harper's, who was in Rome.  Krishna joined them in a tour of the Vatican and cxpressed to Rosalind  his approval of Raja's efforts. For some time he would continue, in small  ways, to assure Rosalind of this approval of Raja, just as he assured her  of his love for her, as if he were anxious to maintain a status quo, to keep  their relationships and their lives as they had always been. Sometimes  he seemed to be chiding her, saying it was thoughtless and destructive  to obscure their love by their behaviour.  Lady Emily had asked Raja to come and see her about a book she had  written, but both his health, his own involvement in publishing, and  an instinct that this was going to be a sticky matter, led him to defer  this interview and he and Krishna went off to India without fulfilling  her request. Krishna, however, wrote and asked that he and Raja could  see the book before it went to press. Lady Emily took the trouble to  send her manuscript to Madras with the hope that they would return  it as soon as possible. She had a publisher and was naturally anxious to  proceed. Krishna refused to look at the manuscript carefully, although  he glanced at it peripherally and indicated to Raja that it should not be  published.  Raja, who read it thoroughly, thought this was unfair to Lady Emily,  that there were things in it that could be deleted to spare various people's 
    -feelings but that it was an important record of Krishna's development  at a crucial era in his life, as well as the historical events around the  243  
 
                   
 
    Theosophical Society. However, he felt his suggestions would be too  involved to handle by correspondence and urged Lady Emily to hold  up publication until they could all discuss it together. 
    Raja had the added complication of explaining Krishna's attitude, for  Krishna refused to do this himself. It was clear that Krishna didn't  want it published at all, but he would not be pinned down, claiming  he had not read it, though he had obviously read enough to draw  a negative conclusion. What had struck him was the inclusion of his  experience under the pepper tree in Ojai. Lady Emily had been one  of the privileged few to receive the full account typed by Raja in 1923  and she had included that in her book as well as many letters to her  from Krishna, revealing his innermost thoughts about Theosophy, his  protectors and other relationships. 
    In 1953, Krishna was as adamantly opposed to many Theosophists  and their views, as he had been when he broke with the society. He  had no wish to be reminded, or to have his public reminded, of his  origins in the Theosophical Society. All this Raja understood °– and he  sympathized with much of it. He felt, however, that the book could be  satisfactorily edited. He also felt that Krishna must speak for himself  and directly to Lady Emily. Meanwhile Lady Emily was left hanging  with the clear impression that Krishna was too tired to read her book  and would let her know about it later. Raja had made the mistake of  protecting Krishna by excusing the delay because of Krishna's fatigue.  Much as Nitya had suffered over Krishna's treatment of Mrs Besant,  Raja began to imagine the same situation for himself evolving around  Lady Emily's book. He tried to get Krishna to take a clear stand. But  Krishna characteristically insisted that he would neither approve nor  disapprove, that Lady Emily must come to the right decision herself.  In addition to this issue, which Raja correctly foresaw was to bring  grief all around, the trouble with his oesophagus flared up again. 
    Life in India was complex for him emotionally. He was often caught  between Krishna's new affections and enthusiasms and the consequent  appearance of disinterest toward his old workers, who had devoted  years to helping him. Krishna had always needed the association with  famous, well-to-do and colourful people, while Raja was content to  build his friendships among those who were loyal and conscientious  and with whom he had a good working relationship; not very exciting,  but he had never sought excitement or outward stimulation. There were  the inevitable bruised feelings and rivalries endemic in most ?(r)spiritual'  circles. When Raja had believed he and Krishna and Rosalind stood  together on a solid base of commitment to a way of life, it had 
    244  
 
                         Candles in the Storm 
    been easier to cope with outside personality problems. His letters to  Rosalind, only hint at the increasing depression which was soon to  consume him. 
    Darling Rosalind, 
    It has not been possible or easy for me to write often; my life in India  these few months has been an exact repetition of last year's, nothing  whatsoever new, same everything including the problems, but I have  thought and thought of you, and you will have known that. 
    Unlike Rosalind, he could not and would not walk away from  problems or pretend they did not exist. He was still determined to  carry the responsibilities he had assumed nearly thirty years before.  Nevertheless, he was feeling the need to withdraw from a close asso- ciation with Krishna, although at this point their lives were still tightly  bound together. 
    Rosalind too was undergoing some basic changes. More and more  the school was absorbing her attention and becoming her whole life.  Her energy, which had been severely tested during the war, had not  regained its high level. Yet it was still vital. When Krishna and Raja  were in Ojal, or when Jimmy and [ came to visit, her outward activity  was the same. She still ran the houschold herself, cooking meals at either  end ofa long day at school. Her focus, however, was obviously on her  work. Her thoughts, as reflected in her conversations, were all related  to the school. Her close friends like Lili noticed the change. 
    Today 1s the 24th of December  & it is the first free hour in which, at long last, I can go on with  this letter . . . but I will never be able to say with words all that  is in my heart. I am longing for you with soul and spirit; I already  missed you grievously during our last stay in the Ojai. Somehow  there was never time enough for the sweet, peaceful relationship; for  the exchange of thoughts, ideas; for the beholding of the other's being  in wishless, grateful wonder ofa fulfilled friendship as it all happened  in that unforgettable first sejour of ours in your house. But flowers  do blossom differently every year &, as Goethe said ?(r)and, oh, you  will not swim in the same river for the second time'. But the river  is all there, lovely & mighty, but changed, with new waters running  through its bed. And you are there too, in the old-new sameness °–  & all this is as it should be . . . ever yours, 
    LILI 
    245  
 
                      In Madras, Krishna was still taking his walks, gazing across the Adyar  river at the Theosophical land where he had once been happy and which  he was told was still beautiful. He would not break his resolution to never  set foot there, but Theosophists came to his talks and he commented to  Rosalind that they are not a thoughtful breed. 
    He wrote her repeated warnings about certain Theosophical Society  members who had come to Ojai and were involved in the Happy Valley  School. He was adamant that their influence should not enter into the  school. He repeatedly insisted that she must speak in the assemblies and  keep a tight rein on the general atmosphere, to create the right feeling  of oneness and not leave it to others to interpret. No one reading his  letters could doubt that he had a strong interest in the school, but just  how strong was not yet clear. He evidently felt confident that Rosalind  would transmit, without conscious effort, his ideas. He had insisted  from the start that he wanted no official connection with the school.  It would become clear in the future that he assumed he would have a  pipeline to it through Rosalind. 
    In March 1954, Jimmy and I had our second and last child, whom  we named Robert after Mr Robbie. My father found a moment of  happiness in this news, writing to us from Athens, 
    Dearest Radha & Jimmy, 
    The day I received the news about Baby Robert I went to the 
    Acropolis by myself and sat at the Parthenon and thought of you 
    and Mummy and the newborn, and sent you from there all my 
    love and blessings °– It was such a lovely coincidence that I could 
    be at the Parthenon that day ~ you can have no idea, till you see it, 
    how beautiful it is °– not only that but the Acropolis & all around it 
    the sea °– 
    I am sure that one day you will come here & see it all °– That at 
    least was what I wished when I had just heard of my dear new friend 
    Baby Robert. 
    It is good that all has gone well, darling & I hope you are very 
    happy. Please send me a snapshot of the baby & also of Tinka. 
    All my love to you Four, 
    DADDY 
    In Athens, the problem of Lady Emily's book was finally confronted,  at least to some degree, by Krishna. He still refrained from making a  positive statement about whether it should or should not be published.  He used on Lady Emily and her daughter, Mary, very much the same 
    246  
 
                         Candles in the Storm 
    technique he used in his lectures and discussions: to lead his listeners  to his view while making them feel they were finding their own path.  They were to be open, drop their preconceptions and their desires,  and experience what he was saying. This procedure had mixed success  when working with abstractions. It was totally disastrous when applied  to anything so concrete as a book. He admitted now that he had read it  very carefully, that it read very well. Only in talking it over together  could a right decision be reached as to whether it should or should not  be published, and that decision would not be his. 
    Raja had hoped that if he kept his opinions to himself Krishna would  be forced to come to his own decision and make his opinion clear to  Lady Emily. He soon saw that this hope was in vain. When they arrived  in London, Krishna was reluctant to discuss the book at all and brought  up no objections whatever with Lady Emily. He did show an interest  and enthusiasm for the title, Candles in the Sun, the sun being the World  Teacher in whose light all the candles (those who awaited his coming)  were dimmed. This single approbation led Lady Emily and Mary to  assume there were no further objections and they procceded with the  publication °– little realizing that the storm had just begun.  
 
                         23 
    Out Out Brief Candles 
    There were endless discussions that summer about Lady Emily's book,  often in my presence, both in Carmel and Ojai. Like Raja, Rosalind felt  that it would be unfair to ask Lady Emily not to publish it, but Krinsh  had convinced her that the role she played in the ?(r)process' incident, as  described by Nitya, because of her connection to the school, would  bring undesirable publicity to it. She suggested her name could be left  out, but saw no reason to stop the book. Publication was scheduled for  the autumn and Raja had been sent a next-to-final set of page proofs. 
    Seeing the manuscript in this format seemed to snap Krishna out  of his detachment. He became actively opposed to publication at all,  which surprised both Rosalind and Raja. Krishna insisted on writing  his decision to Lady Emily, leaving no room for doubt as to his  objections. She cabled back in distress, explaining the intolerable cost  of withdrawal at this point and expressing shock at what she saw as  his sudden volte face. Krishna persisted with his conviction that the  book would do untold damage to him and his work and that no other  consideration was important. Lady Emily and Mary found this demand  so inconsistent with Krishna's attitude in London that they suspected it  was Raja's influence which had wrought the change. This was totally  erroneous and one more example of an inability in many people to place  responsibility on Krishna for those actions they saw as less than perfect.  Krishna could be extremely positive if not downright stubborn when  he wished to be, a side of himself that he rarely displayed. If Mary and  Lady Emily failed to get this impression in London, they are certainly  not to blame. The intentional vagueness that Krishna wielded as detached  influence too often caused confusion. 
    Raja disapproved of KWinc funds being used as financial recompense  for the d°ß|bicle, reasoning that money collected for Krishna's work could  not ethically be used for such a purpose. Neither was he in agreement  with Krishna's attitude, but felt it was Krishna's responsiblity to work  it out with Lady Emily. Krishna magnanimously offered to pay off  the cancellation costs in monthly instalments out of his allowance from 
    248  
 
                   
Out Out Brief Candles 
    ~ Miss Dodge's trust. But Lady Emily declined to accept. Her family  ~ shouldered the financial burden alone. According to Mary the whole  ~incident added ten years to her mother's appearance. 
    -Towards Rosalind Krishna took on the role of a protective knight,  assuring her repeatedly while in Ojai, and later that autumn in his letters  from London, that he had done all this for her and that he would continue  to see that everything was right between them. He was more ardent  than ever in his pleas that nothing would ever come between them  and that what they had together was more important than anything.  He promised to make no more mistakes, to do no more thoughtless  things and that there was no diminishing of his love.  He ignored the fact that Rosalind did not feel very strongly one way or  the other about Candles, not even in so far as it affected her. He seemed  to feel that the whole incident had drawn them closer, perhaps because  he was for once in a position to protect her and to make her aware  of it. Perhaps he was also anxious, because of Nandini, that the first  occurrence of the ?(r)process', with Rosalind in 1922, be kept private. 
    Krishna must have sensed that Raja was withdrawing from him. The  controversy with Lady Emily had left new wounds between them,  wounds unheeded for the time being but which would flare up in the  near future. 
    Back in London, Krishna did his best to comfort Lady Emily -to  the degree that once again she got the impression that he would not  have minded all that much if her book were after all published. But  on the same day that this meeting took place he wrote to Rosalind that  Candles would definitely not be published ever and that he had told Lady  Emily she must accept his decision, even to the extent of putting in her  will that 1t would never happen! 
    Did Krishna himself believe he had settled the matter with Lady  Emily in the way he described to Rosalind? Would Lady Emily have  been shocked to have seen how casually, in his letter to Rosalind, he  treated her distress, always confident that he could sway her to his point  of view? Or was he aware of his inability to face any unplesantness; to  offer a straightforward ?(r)No' face to face? Lady Emily was not as taken  in as Krishna might have imagined. She may have been powerless to  take a stand against him, but she could be very clear-sighted. One day  she would write to Raja: ?°„You have been the lamb on Krishna's altar.' 
    -Before she died she went even further. She said she knew Krishna was  a congenital liar but that she would nevertheless always adore him.  249  
 
                   
24 
    India Revisited 
    For the past few years some of the happiest moments between Rosalind  and Krishna had revolved around Coco, the exceptionally intelligent  poodle which had come into their lives in her full maturity. Both  Krishna and Raja understood that the way to Rosalind's heart was  through her dog and in their letters they seldom failed to refer to Coco  with great affection. What Rosalind considered to be a love match had  occurred between Coco and a beautiful black poodle belonging to the  opera singer, Lotte Lehmann. The expectation of puppies had created  almost as much ofa flurry as Lady Emily's book and Krishna was deeply  disappointed that he must leave Ojai before their birth. His letters to  Rosalind from London and later from India were full of advice and  reminders for the care of the pregnant dog. Then in February 1955 he  received the following letter. 
    Dear Krishnaji:  We have for you $1000.00 to be given to the Rishi Valley School. You  may wonder how [ am able to send you this amount. Will you please  tell the children in your school that I sold my children to raise the  money to give you as a token of my regard for you and for all you have  done for me such as walking, brushing, feeding and understanding  me. I think [ must correct the statement that all the money was given  for my puppies. There were actually some people who gave money  NOT to have a puppy! This I know you will find hard to understand  as [ do. Hardly anyone could see my beautiful black puppies without  longing for one. We have arranged it so you will see one when next  you are here, and you can even have one of my grandchildren. 
    With a heart full of love as always,  coco [signed with an inked paw mark] 
    Krishna attributed both the letter and its sentiments to Rosalind. His  reply makes clear how deeply touched he was by her generosity to his  school and he closed the letter by telling her he loved her very much.  (Coco received no credit at all.) 
    250  
 
                         India Revisited 
    Rosalind's dear friend Maria Huxley, died that same month. No one,  most of all Aldous, had realized how ill Maria was. She had brought  Aldous to visit us in Berkeley not long before and had even then  been on radiation treatments for cancer, which she most ill advisedly  suspended to take that trip. Her spirit masked whatever misery she  was undergoing until the very end. For Aldous's sake, she insisted  that everything be as usual. Rosalind had helped to bring Maria home  from the hospital two weeks before she died and had remained as close  to her as she could. After the funeral Aldous asked most unexpectedly  if he could come right up to Arya Vihara. Being with him those few  days was my first confrontation with such intense grief. We all, even  my mother, felt absolutely helpless in the face of it. 
    Although Raja accompanied Krishna to Australia in 1955, he had no  desire to return to India. At Ojai he could live his own rather hermitic  life and go about his work without undue exposure to the annoying  aura of devotion that Krishna appeared to encourage in the country  of his birth. Rosalind, however, wished to see for herself the scene  around Krishna in India and once and for all sort out her feelings.  She left the Happy Valley School in the hands of her trusted Assistant  Director and flew to Australia to meet Krishna, while Raja returned  to Ojai. 
    She had not travelled abroad with Krishna since the 1930s. She had  forgotten what to expect. There was a large crowd to see them off from  Sydney, another to greet them in Djakarta during their brief layover to  Singapore; nothing of course like in his Theosophical era, but so much  more than in California. Fortunately at Singapore there was no reception  committee. They stayed at Raffles Hotel and were able for one day to be  ordinary tourists. At first Krishna balked at the idea of sightseeing but  ended up enjoying it thoroughly, like a small boy who had discovered  a new game. 
    Rosalind's diary for those six months indicates that she had a very  interesting time, on which she reported at length for the benefit of the  school children back in Ojai. At Benares they were met by a crowd  from the school at Rajghat and taken to a beautiful house by the river.  It seems they were plunged right off into the school problems, to quote  from Rosalind's diary. 
    Tues. Dec 6: Foundation talk, Rao upset, all upset, crisis for Foun- dation members to know what to do.  Wed. Dec 7: Foundation meeting. Gurtugi suggests closing upper  schools.  
 
                      On these visits to Krishna's school she was often appealed to by the  staff to help clarify what Krishna was saying and what he expected  of them. She had behind her nearly ten years' experience in directing  a school and was well aware of the psychological as well as of the  practical problems. On the one hand Krishna would ask her to help,  but he was impatient about her criticism of his habit of favouritism  and his failure to acknowledge the honest efforts of those who were  really keeping the school together. Rosalind could see that everyone in  the school hung on his every word, although Krishna often criticized  the staff for failing to understand his teachings. 
    In Delhi Krishna and Rosalind stayed with Shiva Rao and his Austrian  wife Kitty. Shiva Rao, an early tutor of Krishna's at Adyar and Raja's  first tutor in Benares, had remained a lifelong friend of them both.  Rosalind also met many of Krishna's devotees and friends. She picked  up subtle innuendoes about the Mehta divorce incident but could divine  no actual facts. More and more, however, she sensed that Krishna had  been far from truthful with her. In addition to her personal hurt she  was concerned that Krishna might continue to be involved in scandalous  repercussions, but no amount of discussion with him would clarify the  issue for her. 
    In Delhi, Rosalind coaxed Krishna to go with her to visit Humayan's  tomb and the Qutub Minar. In a letter to Rosalind a few weeks later from  Madras, where Krishna had gone ahead, he told her it had been a beauti- ful day °– he was glad they went together. And he added, as soon as she  saw all she wanted to see, he hoped she would hurry down to Madras and  they would again be together. He might have sensed that he was about  to become ill. By the time Rosalind arrived in Madras, Krishna was very  ill indeed. His talks had to be cancelled; Madhavachari was alarmed and  grateful that she was there to take over nursing him. This kind man who  was in charge of Krishna's household, talks, travels and general welfare  in India was almost in tears with frustration and anxiety for Krishna  was a difficult patient. Poor Madhavachari could not have foreseen the  future times he would be left with an ill Krishna. Rosalind developed a  great fondness for him during this stay. Later it upset her to see that,  while Krishna always went first class, usually by plane, Madhavachan  spent days on buses and overcrowded trains to save funds. 
    Rosalind found brief occasions while nursing Krishna to visit Raja's  family. His mother was very touched that her American daughter-in- law turned up every day with a lotus blossom and played with her  great-grandchildren. 
    When Krishna was well, he and Rosalind went to Rishi Valley for  
 
                         India Revisited 
    the month of February. There they encountered many of the same  problems as at Rajghat. There were teachers' meetings, discussions, or  Krishna's talks every day. Among others who complained to her was  Krishna's nephew, for whom Krishna had found work at the school  but who was not fitting in well with the others. There were charges  of nepotism. Eventually, this nephew would become the principal. 
    March was spent in Bombay, again with discussions or public talks  every day. Here, as had Raja, she found the numbers of devotees around  Krishna both surprising and disturbing and got the impression that he  did nothing to discourage it. She could not comprehend how Krishna  could put up with this intimate idolatry while he ate his breakfast,  dressed, and then had interviews or meetings before lunch. In Ojai he  was so protective of his privacy. In spite of his attendants in Bombay  he found time and oppeortunity not only to express his physical love  for Rosalind, but also to arrange for his friends to take her shopping  and sightseeing. He seemed most anxious that she enjoy this time in  India in every way possible. 
    Rosalind had hoped that she would be able to meet Nandini and to feel  out for herself exactly what the situation was. However, Krishna told her  that Nandini was in samadhi (that cxalted and egoless state of liberation  in which Krishna himself had claimed to be long ago in Ojai), although  she believed Krishna had deliberately arranged Nandini's inaccessibility. 
    Friends had planned a day's trip by plane to see the Ajanta and  Ellora caves. Rosalind had come down with a cold. Krishna felt they  should cancel the trip. But she was reluctant to cancel such elaborately  made plans and insisted on going, accompanied by two friends and a  somewhat reluctant Krishna. In the small unpressurized plane Rosalind  suffered excruciating pain in her.ear and was to learn later that her  eardrum had burst. It was an altogether unpleasant day. The happy  moments they had shared in the early weeks of this journey, sightseeing  and revisiting old haunts, suddenly seemed very distant. 
    Just before leaving Bombay, however, Rosalind did have one brief 
    meeting with Nandini at one of Krishna's public talks. Rosalind sensed 
    a reserve in her that could have been no more than natural shyness. 
    Krishna deftly avoided giving them an opportunity to talk. Rosalind 
    realized the tension that Krishna felt trying to keep his two lives 
    apart. Yet the hospitality shown her by Nandini's sister Pupul, and 
    the brief moment with Nandini herself confirmed Rosalind's belief 
    that Krishna's ?(r)infatuation' had not been reciprocated. She had always 
    regarded Nandini as an innocent figure in Krishna's deception. She 
    could understand Krishna's attraction for this woman who was in 
    253  
 
                   
 
    many ways an ideal Indian beauty. She realized also that the nature  of his relationship with Nandini, whatever it might be, was, to her, of  secondary importance. It was what Krishna felt in his heart as opposed  to what Rosalind considered the untruthful insistence that he loved only  her that she found unbearable. Her repeated confrontations begging him  to admit that their relationship was over and that he was interested in  someone else were futile and met only with stony silence on his part. 
    On the whole Rosalind had been happy on this trip, for she loved  India. But good as Krishna had been to her there, she was deeply  disturbed by the contradictions in his life: the devotees and adulation  which he appeared to enjoy on one side of the globe while decrying  them on the other. 
    When Krishna and Rosalind arrived in Rome they were virtually  penniless. Raja had failed to get the money there for them that they  had expected. They were met by an old friend, Vanda Scaravelli, with  whom they both stayed. Thus the situation was not grave, as Raja  rcalized. but this oversight would be the beginning of much future  conflict between Krishna and Raja. 
    Raja had always been the one to see to all the tiresome details in our  lives. When Krishna and Rosalind had a ?(r)bright idea' it was Raja who  had to implement it °– arrange to buy the car, the cabin, the sending  of money to Krishna's schools and relatives in India. He had disliked  being referred to as Krishna's secretary or manager. He felt his true  responsibilities lay in the editing and publication of the teachings, the  organization necessary for travels and, along with Rosalind, seeing to  the well-being of Krishna. Raja's education would have enabled him to  have many careers, from professor at a university, to law or politics.  Neither he nor Rosalind had ever been devotees. They had both always  been scrupulously careful not to interfere in Krishna's inner life. They  tried to arrange for him the solitude and the simplicity of life that they  had always understood from him to be his requirement. 
    During the best of their times together Krishna appreciated this  arrangement. He depended heavily on Raja's judgment, not only in  practical matters but also for his advice in the projection of his teachings.  On many mornings before his Sunday talks, he would appear at Raja's  door. They would spend a half-hour going over the questions that had  been sent to him. He seemed to find, in Raja's presence, a reassurance  that the words would come at the right moment. He used to describe  to me his fear that one day he would sit there in silence before the  audience with his mind empty. He never wanted to be with anyone  but my father before the talks. 
    254  
 
                         India Revisited 
    Leaving Krishna in Rome, Rosalind went to Paris for a week by  herself. Krishna wrote her a long letter summing up the past six months  together which he said, with a few exceptions, had been good. He said  it had been beneficial for her to see the many beautiful things she had  seen and the different cultures, as if she were a schoolgirl who had never  seen such things before. Again he implored her not to let superficial  agitation and emotionalism disturb the deep inner understanding and  love that was between them. But he misjudged the change of heart  that had finally taken place in Rosalind. 
    She met both Krishna and Raja in Stockholm. Here one day walking  alone with Raja by a canal, she told him that she did not want Krishna to  return to America. She wanted to be completely free of him, for a while  atleast. Her school work demanded she remain in Ojai, but Krishna could  live elsewhere just as well. Her emotions, which had been ricocheting  for the past five years between her lingering love for Krishna and her  increasing suspicions of his feelings, finally pushed her into throwing  out this bombshell, which much later even she would see as irrational  and somewhat outrageous. Perhaps she was moved by an increasing con- sciousness of her own individuality, now that she had a separate life with  the school. Perhaps part of the cause was her discomfort in continuing to  live a secret life with Krishna while taking on a role which demanded a  new concern for reputation. Before the school she had seen discretion as  a necessity for Krishna rather than herself. Besides it is one thing to take  risks for a happy love affair and quite another for one that is faltering. 
    Raja was caught in this conflict. It involved him, of course, as long as  he was connected with Krishna. He felt Rosalind was being unreasonable  in her demand, even though he understood her emotional state. But  surprisingly Krishna agreed not to return to California. 
    Howevet co-operative Krishna appeared to be at the time, there  would be later repercussions that would fall on Raja's rather than on  Rosalind's head. But judging from Krishna's letters to her immediately  after, when she had returned to California, one wonders if he had taken  Rosalind seriously at all or if he were just certain this mood would  pass and that the love between them was ultimately inviolable. He  wrote as though nothing had changed, asked after Coco, the school,  and imagining how happy and excited everyone must have been on  her return. He repeatedly assured her that she had his love as always  and that only when one has lost love do things go wrong. 
    Mr Robbie died in Ojai that June of 1956. He was eighty-two and had  suffered several strokes. He had wanted to go for a long time. One 
    255  
 
                   
LIVES IN THE SHADOW WITHJ. KRISHNA'MURTI 
    afternoon at his weekly tea party under the pergola behind Saro Vihara  my mother was trying to cheer him by getting him to recite poetry.  She said, how wonderful it must be to have so many beautiful verses  in his head. He replied, nothing mattered any more, that he had been  waiting ever since Sara died to die himself. It was difficult for Rosalind  to be philosophical about Mr Robbie's death. It was a great loss. 
    Robert had left Rosalind enough of his estate to make her financially  independent for life. This was something Sara and he had agreed to do  years before, but it was unexpected and unlooked for by Rosalind. 
    256  
 
                         25 
    Exiled 
    Jimmy and I were still in graduate school at Berkeley in 1956. He  was working for a PhD in mathematics and I was for an MA in  comparative literature. My father felt that a few summer months  in Europe would be good for us and he gave us the trip. As our  minds were very taken up with our studies while bringing up two  small children, he also asked Willie to make the arrangements for  us through a local travel agent. My mother offered to take care of  our two children. My family continued to be very supportive in our  life, but we had not been much involved in theirs for the past few  years, witnessing only occasional conflicts on our rare visits to Ojai  and in the summers at Carmel. All three of them had visited us - but not all at once. When Krinsh and my mother came to the Bay  area together, he stayed with us and she in a hotel as we had a very  small house. Krinsh showed an affectionate interest in our children  and even babysat a few times, although this appeared to exhaust him  and he would complain that American children were too well fed and  hence too energetic. Sometimes we went to a good Italian restaurant  in San Francisco, but the food never matched, in Krinsh's opinion,  that of a Roman meal. Once we took him to a class on semantics  by Professor Hayakawa, which Jimmy and I were attending. Krinsh  made disparaging remarks afterwards, saying Hayakawa was shallow  and unoriginal, but he was struck with some of the metaphors and  repeated them later, for example, making the map (psychologically)  fit the territory. 
    When my father visited we had a very good time with him, going  out to restaurants and the cinema in San Francisco and having dinner  with old friends like Blanche Matthias. I could see a new weariness in 
    -him, but he was quite cheerful around us and enjoyed the children.  My mother, if she came alone, usually urged us to go off on a little  trip by ourselves and leave her with her grandchildren. Perhaps some  ~ contrary reflection from her own marriage had convinced her that it  was important for young couples to have some time to themselves. 
    257      She was more than generous, considering her busy life, in providing  us with these occasions. 
    In July, Jimmy and [ flew to Copenhagen, where my father was waiting  to greet us and launch us on our first grand tour of Europe. We did not  know that Krinsh was waiting for us in Holland in order to spend a few  days with us and accompany us back to Paris. Not until many years  later, when I read his sad account to my mother of how we had never  even called and he had missed us in Holland altogether, did I realize  how badly the communication had broken down between him and my  father. It was not an intentional oversight on Raja's part. He had been  dissatisfied with the arrangments made for us by the travel agent and  had spent a lot of time in Copenhagen re-arranging our trip. Krishna  was simply not on his mind at that moment. But this was in itself a  new attitude. 
    By the time we met both Krinsh and my father in Paris, the path  was smooth and there was a harmonious tone between them and their  old friends, who did everything to make our stay there memorable. We  were ensconced in a French Air Force General's apartment in the Ecole  Militaire. A private military car and driver were put at our disposal.  The General and his wife were followers of Krinsh. Mima was in town  and we had lovely dinners with her, full of reminiscences of old times °–  better and happier times, no doubt, for Krinsh and my father. Yet there  was a lot of gaiety and once more [ felt surrounded by that strong aura  of love that [ had known all my life. I could not have guessed how frail  were the bonds that were holding them all together. 
    I had a slight touch of flu and Krinsh sat with me in the General's  apartment trying to pull the fever out of my feet, as he had when I was  a child. He was distressed that I should miss any time at all seeing Paris,  but he spent the afternoon with me wanting to hear about Mr Robbie's  death; the last sad weeks when he could no longer speak or leave his  bed, the last quiet moments with my mother there to hold his hand. 
    ?(r)Poor Robert,?°¿ Krinsh said, ?(r)he hated to be pushed around and wanted  to go.?°¿ By this he meant pushed around in a wheelchair. Mr Robbie  was one person to whom Krinsh had never shown anything but deep  respect, even behind his back. 
    Another friend of his and my father's, Nadia Sednaoui, a beau- 
   tiful Egyptian girl, showed us the special jewels of Paris like the 
    Chapelle de St Louis. Neither Krinsh nor my father would sight- 
   see, although they were both adamant that we should see everything 
    worthwhile. 
    258  
 
                   
Exiled 
    We parted company in Paris, Jimmy and I off to Switzerland for  a few days' driving about on our own, Krinsh to spend the rest of  the summer with friends in the Dordogne, and my father to Rome.  By the time we joined him there he was again low in spirits and in  health as though he had depleted the small reserve of happiness and  vitality that had welled up those few days in Paris. Vanda Scaravelli,  a person who would become very dear to both Jimmy and me, as  she had been for years to my family, showed us all over Rome and  then Assisi, Venice and Florence while my father spent most of the  time confined to his hotel room. This was a pattern in his behaviour  which was not totally unfamiliar. He had never been one of the crowd.  Through all the excursions and holidays of my youth he had gone his  own secluded way. 
    In Krishna's letters to Rosalind during the next year he appeared to  accept her wish to be free of him, at the same time maintaining that  his feelings for her had not changed. From India, he described a second  trip to the Qutub Minar which he had visited with her two years before.  The Qutub is a high iron pillar built of non-rusting iron. It was placed  on its present site in AD 1052 but is thought to be two millennia old.  It is the setting that is beautiful amid the rolling hills south of Delhi.  There is a strong nostalgia in Krishna's words for the time they had  gone there together and he wrote that she was with him too this second  time. It is clear that he was not willing to let Rosalind slip out of his  life. His needs had always been strong and complex and up until now  she had filled them. It was against her nature to deprive anyone of care  that she could provide. Krishna knew her very well, but he was not in  tune with the slow change within her. He was aware that the different  aspects of his personality could cause serious problems. He also relied on  the infallible force of his own words. He believed that to tell Rosalind he  still loved her was enough, whatever actions of his might persuade her  to the contrary. On the other hand she had come to feel that ?(r)actions  speak louder than words'. 
    If Rosalind had found the exile of Krishna from Ojai a satisfactory, if 
    temporary, solution, Raja had not. He still could not come to terms with 
    his own position in the now fractured triangle. It had been one thing 
    to forgive their intimacy, but now Rosalind's stand to free herself from 
    Krishna had created a new problem. Arya Vihara was Krishna's home 
    and he had every right to be there whenever he wished. Raja could not 
    agree with Rosalind's request that Krishna stay away, yet he understood 
    her feelings and his affection and sympathy for her were unwavering in 
    259      spite of everything. He knew there must be some changes in his life,  that he could no longer play a personal role with Krishna, a mixture  of nursemaid and manager. He felt it was incumbent on him to sort  out a problem which was not initially of his making. 
    In the spring Raja again set off for Europe. Rosalind had persuaded  him to fly rather than take the boat, as he had always preferred to do.  With her characteristic practicality, she had even advised him where to  sit on the plane. One can see his state of mind from the few letters he  wrote to her after his arrival in Europe. 
    Have been quite laid out by the happenings before I left & feel very 
    weary °– but shall see what's going to happen °– This is a miserable 
    letter but will send it just to let you know I got here alright, tho' 
    very tired. Am very concerned about you -all the time. 
    Love, 
    R. 
    Raja was supposed to meet Krishna °– returning from six months in  India, in Rome, but communications had again broken down, as Raja  complained to Rosalind. 
    There has been no letter or sign of anything from India. I have no 
    idea of the situation or what 1s happening. Have you had any news 
    from Bombay since I left Ojai? The situation is still the same in my 
    mind and I don't yet know clearly how to set about it. 
    I hope all is well with you and the burden is lightening in some 
    way. Please send some news soon. 
    All my love, dear, 
    R 
    Elaborate arrangements had been made for Krishna to talk throughout  Europe that summer. However, when Raja met him in Rome at the  end of March whatever transpired between them resulted in all talks  throughout the world being cancelled for the next year. Krishna gave  his 11l health as the grounds for this abrupt change of plans. The health  of all three of them was certainly suffering from the conflicts arising  among them. Krishna may have felt exhausted, but he could not exist  for long without talking. It is also unlikely that Raja wanted the  talks cancelled after he had gone to so much trouble to make the  arrangements. Although one may infer from Raja's letter to Rosalind  that he was seriously looking for a way to withdraw personally from 
    260  
 
                         Exiled 
    Krishna, that he had not heard from Krishna for some time had greatly  irritated him as there were always many questions about Krishna's plans  needing answers. In writing to Rosalind Krishna expressed relief that the  talks were cancelled. He said he was going to write to no one except  her and Raja and would take a complete rest ?(r)good for the body and  the mind'. 
    Whatever talks he had with Krishna in Europe did not resolve Raja's  problems as to his ongoing relationship with Krishna and the work: 
    I am feeling a little better, but of course the various problems have  not been even tackled yet. Hope you are all right and not totally  exhausted. I am sure the rest at Carmel will do you good. I may  come there for a few days while you are there . . . 
    All my love, dearest Rosalind,  RAJA 
    Raja was still torn between his sense of responsibility towards Krishna  and his own need to get his head above water. Since the affair between  Krishna and Rosalind had been revealed to Raja six years before, there  had been no clear redefinition of any of their relationships. Krishna had  never even discussed this with Raja, as he had promised Rosalind he  would do. This in itself hurt Raja, for he felt the act of disloyalty to  him had been Krishna's not Rosalind's. Raja, being unafraid of any  human being, underestimated Krishna's fear of him, this fear being the  probable basis of much of Krishna's behaviour, especially that involving  deceptions, as years ago Krishna himself had admitted to Rosalind. But  perhaps Raja's most serious difficulty was that in spite of everything,  he still had a deep affection for Krishna and he still could not realize, or  accept, the.possibility that Krishna had none for him, if indeed he had  ever had. It was this more than anything that would ultimately make  it difficult for Raja to free himself. 
    Krishna had begun to complain to Rosalind more and more about  his own health, and about the conflicts between him and Raja. He said  he would not return to Ojai until they both asked him and added he  was definitely getting old and could not stand all this. 
    Yet there was one last interlude of companionship between the two  men. They went for a few days to Gstaad, Switzerland, which would 
    -later be a summer centre for Krishna. One can infer much by the fact  ~ that Raja made the effort to take long walks with Krishna every day;  -walks which must have relieved the sessions of talking that filled the rest  -of their time. One of these walks ended in the rain with the two ageing  261  
 
                   
 
    men slipping and sliding down a muddy path to see a lake, huddled  together, arm in arm under Raja's umbrella. 
    Krishna seemed saddened by the gradual realization that their lives  were pulling apart. He still reaffirmed his love for Rosalind. He told  her he loved her and meant this with all his heart and he begged her  to believe it. He admitted he had not made it all easy but reminded  her, as he had said before, that she would have to forgive. He prayed  everything would be all right, that everything ugly would be wiped  away between them and that there would be peace and love. That was  foremost, he said, and repeated that she was loved with all his heart  and then asked for blessings on them all. 
    According to Krishna's letters to Rosalind, Raja and he appeared to  have ended their talks amicably even if in Raja's mind many issues were  still left hanging. Yet from this time on Krishna started a campaign to  discredit Raja in a way so subtle that no one would understand just what  was taking place. In order to understand one would have to see that  his claims against Raja were false. Krishna had a surprising and largely  unsuspected talent for long-range planning. He had demonstrated this  talent in acquiring the schools in India from the Theosophical Society  and on another level, in preparing himself all summer for those final  treks in Sequoia. 
    Just after Raja's departure from Switzerland, Krishna wrote to Rosalind  that he had gone into town to cash cheques for his train trip and the  hotel bill. He made no mention of a shortage of funds which he  surely would have done had that been the case. Yet when he was  met by his hosts with whom he would again stay in the Dordogne,  he complained that Raja had left him penniless with barely enough  to pay the hotel bill. It would be several more years before Raja  would comprehend the growing criticism of him, fanned by these  deceptions, among most of his friends and associates throughout the  world. 
    The summer of 1957, spent in Ojai, seems to have been relatively  calm for Raja. Probably because for most of it he was alone. Rosalind  was making it her habit to spend the summers in Carmel. But Raja's  health was still bad and he hoped to get a check up at the Bircher-Benner  clinic in Zurich before returning to India with Krishna in the autumn.  That Krishna had little concern for Raja's problem was soon evident. 
    Dearest Rosalind,  [ am writing this from Amsterdam and I telephoned Krishnaji from  Hamburg. It was most distressing. He seems to be very anxious to 
    262  
 
                         Exiled 
    go immediately back to India, even though I indicated to him that 
    would like to [spend] two weeks in the clinic in Zurich. 
    So we are going on the 6th. I think things are not as they should 
    be. It is no use bothering you with all that. You have your own 
    worries and | hope all 1s going well with you. 
    I shall do what I can for the best of all of us in India. T hope I shall 
    be able to get back to California as soon as possible. 
    With much love, 
    Yours, 
    R 
    Contrary to the impression that Krishna was beginning to promote  of being manocuvred by a wilful man, it had always been and still  was typical that Raja deferred to Krishna's wishes, even when it was  difficult for him to do so. Krishna often acted as though he didn't  care what he did or where he went, but anyone at all tuned in to  him could easily discern his preferences and Raja had always gone to  great pains to be sensitive to them. He tried to find people with whom  Krishna would be happy to stay, as hotels were distasteful to him.  He arranged for first-class air travel while he himself went economy.  There was very little that was done without Krishna's endorsement,  yet Raja's overtly secretive nature, his insistence on running KWinc  in a very private manner between him and Krishna and two or three  trusted individuals, eventually made him an easy prey to charges of  domination. 
    Krishna did not intimate to Rosalind that there was any friction  between him and Raja and they set off apparently on good terms for  India, but there all the excuses and explanations about Nandini began  once again Rosalind had not asked for these reports and indeed was  not interested in them any longer. She had given up hope long ago of  hearing the truth and now preferred to hear nothing at all. 
    She sent Raja a list of people, mostly relatives of Krishna whom she  had met in 1956 whom she proposed to help financially. As soon as she  inherited from Mr Robbie Rosalind began to think of ways to give away  her money. She would never feel comfortable with money and would  always continue to spend very little on herself. She sent a sizeable sum  to Raja's family as well and to some pecople associated with Krishna's  schools. This generosity was to be implemented by Raja, although he  questioned the wisdom of some of it. 
    On this, his fmal trip to India, Raja was spending a minimum of  time with Krishna. Raja's mother would die soon after and he would 
    263  
 
                   
 
      not return again. She had been an important reason for his visits, but  he had never enjoyed staying long in India. 
    He had turned over the European arrangements for talks and travel to  Doris Pratt in the London office. He was still taking responsibility for  the publications and the overall financial management, but had provided  the London office with sums for Krishna's use in different countries. 
    Rosalind, who had never intended to be Director of the Happy Valley  School for so many years, had once again started a search for a new  Director. When Krishna heard of this he reacted vehemently: although  she had, he wrote, been saying that there must be a new Director,  fortunately that evil hour has so far been postponed. He thought it  would be a calamity if another Director took her place. Why should  he care? Unless he had indeed seen Rosalind as his pipeline of influence  in the school. 
    In January 1958 Raja left Krishna in India, and resolved to do  something about his health. The resolve seemed to bring him a fleeting  lightening of spirits and sense of optimism: 
    Dearest Rosalind, 
    As you know, I wanted to go to some Clinic somewhere to 
    see really what is what with me, and I have decided to go to 
    Bircher-Benner Clinic for a few days, and maybe for a few weeks. 
    I shall be returning to Ojai the latter part of March. I do not at all 
    like the 1dea of being in a wretched Clinic but I guess I will do it °– 
    not so much for my own sake but for everybody else's sake. 
    On the whole everything is well with me in a strange new way. 
    With much love, 
    RAJA 
    But everything was not so well with Krishna in India. He still reported  the details of his life regularly to Rosalind, giving exacting and reassuring  accounts of his visits to Pupul and Nandini. He perhaps did not realize  that she was never to read these letters carefully, sometimes not at all.  She was impatient and busy. The school was becoming too much for  her and she was not succeeding in finding her replacement. In spite of  Krishna's admonitions she was still trying to do so. 
    Krishna, suddenly showing exasperation, asserted that he would not 
    report on his activities with Nandini, that it was absurd and silly to 
    do so. He also alleged that his letters might be opened for blackmail 
    purposes and therefore he would henceforth write more discreetly. 
    264  
 
                         Exiled 
    When he went for the summer to the hill station of Ranikhet, his  letters, however, resumed their loving tone. He spent four months  there in relative isolation, from which he seemed to benefit emotionally  and spiritually. 
    Raja found at the clinic that his oesophagus problem was mechanical  and incurable without surgery, so he decided to ?(r)lump it and put up  with the discomfort'. He remained in America for the next two and a  half years. While he had no conflict with Rosalind, there was no more  harmony between them than there had ever been. She had buried the  shock of Krishna's disloyalty under her work. That she had intentionally  distanced herself from Krishna did not mean that she wanted to get closer  to Raja, not closer than she had been for these past twenty-five years.  They were no more temperamentally suited than they had ever been.  But a deep and affectionate friendship still remained between them. 
    Raja was still very involved with Harper & Row, editing and pub- lishing books from Krishna's talks and from his notebooks. Krishna  still showed no interest in being personally involved with all this,  and seemed glad enough for Raja to continue this work. Krishna had  decided a few years before to resign altogether from KWilnc, perhaps  as part of a short-lived impulse toward total retirement. Throughout  the years Raja had suggested that Krishna settle down somewhere and  let people come to him, but Krishna had disdained the idea. Now his  faltering health prompted him in this direction, but after the months  of isolation at Ranikhet, a part ot him longed for a return to activity. 
    As Krishna was remaining in India for so long and quite out of  touch, Raja had asked him to sign a document to facilitate the financial  arrangements that were part of the contracts with Harper's and the  European publishers. This document, stated in writing no more than  had always been the implicit and often expressed understanding between  them. It was only necessary now as Raja was dealing with outsiders.  While he complied readily at the time, later Krishna would read a  wholly imaginary, sinister implication in this request, or allow others  to convince him of one. 
    When Rosalind had been at the Rishi Valley School two years before,  she had already noted the increasing dissension between Krishna and  the headmaster, Mr Pearce. Krishna was undercutting his influence in  the school by appointing people of his choice over Pearce's head. At  last Pearce resigned and Krishna reported to Rosalind that there was  a lot of misery and upset in the school over this. His letter sounded as  though it were all more ofa problem that Krishna could cope with. 
    Pearce retired from Rishi Valley to Ootacamund, where he started the 
    265  
 
                   
 
    Blue Mountain School. His wife told us sixteen years later that Krishna  had broken her husband's heart by manoeuvring him out of the Rishi  Valley School and he had not lived long thereafter. 
    Krishna also lost a very old friend that winter, one who went back  to his and Nitya's youth. Ratansi, with whom he usually stayed in  Bombay, died unexpectedly ofa heart attack. Intensifying these events  was the heat, fiercely increasing after the middle of March. Krishna  wanted to get away from India, from the problems and from everyone;  but Madhavachari recommended that he rest in Kashmir instead of going  all the way to Europe. It was often hard for Indians to understand just  how Westernized Krishna was and how he yearned for that other culture  when cut off from it for too long. But he acquiesced and agreed to remain  in India. In his letters to Rosalind there are frequent nostalgic references  to Ojai, wondering if the valley was green and beautiful; life in India  was becoming increasingly tiresome for him. But he would remain  there for another year on top of the year and a half he had already  stayed, his longest sojourn there since he had left in 1911. Neither had  he ever been away from Ojai and from Rosalind for so long a time in  thirty-seven years. 
    266  
 
                         26 
    A Moratorium 
    In Ojai, Raja and Rosalind, for a time brought closer by their common 
    problems, now seemed pulled apart by them. Their relationship was 
    becoming more and more strained, in part because they did not agree 
    on how to deal with Krishna, although they both wished to withdraw 
    from his orbit. 
    It was in this atmosphere that Raja fell in love, almost against his own 
    wishes. Annalisa Beghe was living in the Saro Vihara house, which 
    Rosalind had inherited from Mr Robbie, and was assisting Rosalind in 
    the school. Annalisa and Rosalind were friends. One day on a walk, in 
    the spring of 1959, Annalisa turned impulsively to Rosalind and said, 
    ?(r)Raja and I are in love.?°¿ If Rosalind received a shock she gave no sign 
    of it at the moment. 
    ?(r)1 am so glad if he has someone special to love him,'?°¿ she replied. 
    Rosalind was well aware that Raja had been very much alone for the past 
    twenty-eight years. The friendship between her and Annalisa continued. 
    There were frequent dinners 4 trois when they discussed their situation, 
    often with bursts of ironic humour. At least, in this relationship, 
    everything was out in the open. But Raja was very hesitant to embark 
    on another marriage. ?(r)Why should I jump out of the frying pan into 
    -the fire??°¿ he,said to me one day while visiting us in Berkeley.  His attraction to Annalisa was understandable. She had never cared for  -Krishna personally although she was interested in his teachings. When  -she had first seen them both many years ago, before being introduced  -she had thought, ?(r)Raja should be standing in Krishna's shoes.?°¿ She was  -Swiss-Italian, twenty-five years younger than Raja, beautiful and very  ?°„ feminine, also willing to show deference to him in a way Rosalind with  her strong American independence could not have done.  I realized that my parents had never in my memory had a true  marriage. | was not disturbed by this new attachment in my father's  ife. But I was disturbed by my mother's frequent depression during 
    hese years. I did not know then about the distress she had gone  hrough over Krishna's disloyalty. Partly due to her own design she 
    267      now had to make a life independent of the two men whose focus had  been exclusively hers for so many years. And Coco, who had been her  most loyal and loving companion, died that winter. 
    Raja too seemed more and more depressed; sometimes Annalisa  would appear on Rosalind's doorstep in tears, asking for advice on  how to help him. Rosalind was sufficiently alarmed by Raja's state of  mind to write Krishna a letter of distress, appealing to him to come to  Ojai immediately. 
    Krishna replied giving a string of specious reasons as to why he could  not oblige. These ranged from lack of funds to the difficulties involved  in procuring a visa, but he ended with a more credible objection; until  he heard from Raja, as well, that they both wanted him to return, he  would not do so. It was obvious that he had no wish to become involved  in their present crisis. He warned Rosalind not to do anything ?(r)drastic  or irrevocable'. 
    Shortly after sending this letter, Krishna fell seriously ill. When he  had recovered enough to travel he made plans to go to the Bircher- Benner clinic and then communicated with Raja about returning to  California. His 1illness had shaken him and he wrote to Rosalind that  the whole organism was rapidly disintegrating. However, this morbid  alarm disappeared on his return to Ojai. Rosalind was determined that  the disputes and unhappiness between them all must be resolved no  matter what course their future might take, together or apart. It was her  nature to want this and she could not accept its impossibility. She still  thought she had some influence on Krishna. Krishna on the other hand  was upset by Raja's intention to move away from Arya Vihara. It was  often difficult to understand why Krishna so vehemently disapproved  of certain things. Why should he care where Raja lived? He must have  realized that without Raja's presence at Arya Vihara, it would be difficult  for him and Rosalind to remain there alone together. Raja, for all those  years had unwittingly provided them with an umbrella of propriety.  Krishna was not yet ready to re-organize his life. 
    After lengthy discussions between the three of them, Annalisa keeping  well out of it, Rosalind asked that they have a moratorium until the  following year, during which time they would all agree to the following:  there would be no more recriminations between any of them. The three  of them would get along and leave everything alone °– no changes would  be made until they met the following summer. They would write  every two weeks and discuss all plans together. But, most important,  Krishna would agree not to give any large public lectures until the year  was out.! 
    268  
 
                   
A Moratorium 
    Rosalind was not the first to recommend that Krishna lead a less  public life. Many years before, Mme de Manziarly had told him bluntly  that he should stop travelling all over the world in high style and settle  down quietly in one place, letting those who wanted to hear him come  to him. Krishna had taken offence at that suggestion and he ignored  her after that. When she died, he did not send his condolences to her  daughters, although it was she he had called on long ago to take care  of Nitya when he was so ill.2 It is most likely that Krishna found it  easier to agree to and then ignore Rosalind's proposals than to argue  with her. 
    Much as he had taken pains to give Rosalind the impression that he  was protecting her interests in stopping publication of Lady Emily's  book, he now made a great point of another issue; an issue which he  created. This time Raja was the unmentioned but obvious object from  whom Krishna wished to protect her. He wrote Rosalind a formal  letter stating that Arya Vihara, from the very beginning, belonged  to all three of them (and to Radha). Since Raja now had his own  home (he had bought a house adjacent to the Vigevenos at the other  end of the valley), Krishna wished to put into writing that whatever  the circumstances in the future, Arya Vihara was to be the home of  Rosalind and of Radha for their lifetime. He urged also that Rosalind  never abandon and leave that property. He took the trouble to give a  copy of this statement to Louis and Erma and asked them to witness  that it was his wish. Rosalind was naturally puzzled by this insistence,  as she was justifiably confident that no one connected with KWing,  least of all Raja, would expect her to leave and, if they had, she would  not have greatly minded. Krishna was evidently assuming that Raja's  involvement with Annalisa had alienated him from Rosalind and from  her best interests, or else he was deliberately driving a wedge between  them. 
    Krishna apparently regained much of his health and strength during 
    the six months he was in Ojai. Rosalind had always known how to 
    take care of him; and he had seldom been 1ll with her except for the 
    one serious attack of nephritis in 1946. 
    From the first letter he wrote after his departure, Rosalind had every 
    reason to feel assured that Krishna had taken the moratorium seriously 
    and had agreed to her request about his talking in India. He promised he 
    would follow in letter and spirit what they all agreed to. He also said he 
    had written to Madhavachari to arrange only limited discussions and no 
    public talks in India. He reminded Rosalind that her part of the bargain 
    was to stay at Arya Vihara, although that had not been part of the 
    269  
 
                      moratorium agreement. He reiterated his concern that the school must  remain the work of the Happy Valley Foundation and that Rosalind  must be the co-ordinator and spirit behind it. He cautioned her not to  allow experts, specialists and super organisers to swamp her. 
    His letters were now on a three-day instead of daily schedule. He  explained that he did the same thing every day and it was boring to  repeat. This was in no way a new circumstance. He complained that  communications with Raja were still bad and he was not receiving  replies about plans. Within a month the limited discussion groups had  increased from sixty to a hundred; by the next month to two hundred  packed in like sardines. Krishna was becoming annoyed by the terms  of the moratorium. 
    Meanwhile Raja had cabled Krishna in India saying he could no  longer arrange for the European gatherings and had turned over the  management to Miss Pratt in the London office. 
    The summer had taken its toll on Raja. He would never again throw  off the dej°ß|ction he had almost dispelled two years before. In the late  autumn of 1960 he left for Europe, deeply depressed, for six months on  his own, purposeless and at a loss as to what to do with his personal  life. He wrote to Rosalind: 
    Zurich Dec 6, 60  Since I arrived here I have not been able to sleep at all nights, but  as I am doing nothing, and know no one here, it has not mattered.  I shall get adjusted to this coming away for no particular reason but  to have a change. 
    To the above letter he received an affectionate response from Rosalind,  who gave a rare admission of what she too had been through. 
    It was nice to have your letter & to know that you remembered your  promise. 
    It has been a very busy time with the school, holidays & family  otherwise I w'ld have answered it sooner. I feel that I can just barely  survive as [ am constantly harassed by a strange dizziness . . . I need a  little more breathing space °– a little more time as these last years have  been a tremendous shock and strain. I will feel better to know that  you are doing everything possible to get things right for yourself&  let us hope that we meet in June in a good way. Always with dearest  love and wishing you all the best, 
    ROSALIND  
 
                         A Moratorium 
    But after four months in Europe Raja showed only a promise of  improvement. He wrote to Rosalind what would turn out to be the  last letter she ever received from him. 
    Geneva April 3, 61 
    Dear Rosalind, 
    I have not felt like writing to anyone, anywhere and I am afraid  I am forgetting how to write. There has been no news, I have been  existing and trying not to think about anything or anybody. Hope  I shall get a true perspective someday soon °– 
    But [ am glad to have been completely alone & away from my 
    grooved life of 40 years nearly °– & am hoping for the best.  How have you been, needless to ask, for you are not going to  write & tell me the news.  Anyway I do hope you have had a complete rest from certain  things & are feeling happy & well.  Shall let you know when I arrive in N.Y.,  Love,  R 
    Rosalind made the serious mistake of trying to change the date when  they had all agreed, according to the moratorium, to meet in Ojai. She  had forgotten how demanding the final weeks of school could be. It did  not matter to Raja whether it was 15 or 30 June, as she now preferred.  Krishna, on the other hand, who in the end had not heeded the terms  of the moratorium at all and had made extensive plans for public talks  in Europe reacted with an outrage Rosalind had never felt from him.  He said he was not coming to hang around till she was ready, that she  had work to do and so did he. Rosalind compromised quickly by cable  with an earlier date. 
    When they all met at Ojai in that summer of 1961 the moratorium  had solved nothing. Krishna was mostly interested in getting his teeth  fixed. Raja had resolved none of his problems. He did not yet know  that Krishna had begun entrenching himself with others who would  eventually help him in a fight against Raja. Krishna picked his new  circle very astutely for this purpose. But the time was not yet ripe  and he was avoiding an open break. Krishna was then confident that  Rosalind would never side with Raja against him. 
    For her part Rosalind wanted to be free of them both. She was weary  and as depressed as she had ever been in her life. She did not want  a divorce. However, she felt a divorce was right for Raja. As she 
    271  
 
                   
 
    was categorically unable and unwilling to say anything against Raja,  wishing to claim only incompatibility as grounds, it was necessary to  get a Mexican divorce. This she did smoothly enough through a lawyer  in Carmel. Raja and Annalisa were now free to marry. But this would  not free Raja from the complex web around Krishna. 
    272  
 
                         27 
    A House Divided 
    That summer of 1961 Jimmy and I and our two children moved to  Santa Barbara, where we had just bought a house. Jimmy had joined  the Mathematics Department of the University of California at Santa  Barbara. We were so busy remodelling our house and settling in that  we did not fully comprehend the gravity of my family's situation. Aside  from a few unhappy scenes, we were not involved with the discussions  that summer, except one which I remember vividly, although I was  puzzled by it at the time. Just before he returned to Europe, on 6  July, Krinsh came over to Santa Barbara with my mother. I was in  the middle of painting our bedroom and they urged me not to stop  while they kept me company. Krinsh seemed to enjoy the lovely  view from our window of the mountains. But the amount of work  remaining still to do dismayed him. My mother had swept up a pile  of plaster chippings left on the floor and then sat quietly on the bed. 
    Krinsh remained standing. I could feel his restlessness. 
    Suddenly he said, ?(r)Kittums I want you to clearly understand that  Arya Vihara is to be Rosalind's home for her life and yours too.' 
    ?(r)Thank you for including me, Krinsh, but we have just bought this  house and hope to stay here for a long time. Besides we cannot live in  Ojai. Jimmy's work is here.' 
    ?(r)Just remember what I am saying, Kittums. If Rosalind should ever  leave Arya Vihara I will not return to Ojai again.?°¿ Even then that seemed  to me an empty threat, and rather pointless. I could not understand his  urgency. It was not clear to me until later that he had convinced himself  my father would try to push her out. He still saw himself and Rosalind  as united against Raja. 
    Krishna wrote to her, just after he left Ojai, that during his last night 
    there he awoke feeling a sense of cruel oppression, intrigue. Possibly 
    he was suggesting that Raja had been taken over by the black forces. 
    This attitude would circulate among his new friends in the near future, 
    much as Wedgwood had claimed to have seen the ?(r)black magician' in 
    Krishna when he started to withdraw from Theosophy. 
    273  
 
                   
 
   
    More and more Krishna refused to discuss anything with Raja, while  claiming that it was Raja who would not answer his letters or talk to him.  It is true that Raja's personality had become more abrasive. In addition  to his disillusionment with Krishna there were new corrosions in what  he had thought were old and loyal friendships. Even Erma and Louis  had shown a new coolness toward him. In their case, though Raja did  not realize it, this was due to his marriage with Annalisa. No matter  how graciously Rosalind had accepted this marriage, Erma was torn  between her deep and affectionate friendship with Raja and her loyalty  to Rosalind. Although Rosalind did not admit even to herself such a  reaction, Erma was convinced that her sister's pride had been hurt by  Raja's new marriage and she felt a protective sense of indignation. She  was ignorant of Rosalind's long affair with Krishna and would remain  so until her death, therefore she did not have a true perspective on  Raja's actions. But where other people were concerned, there is no  doubt that Krishna's insinuations and subtle casting of doubt about  Raja's performance and motives had eroded many of his relationships.  For the past few years another problem had developed. An Indian doctor  had suggested that a small drink of Scotch every day would ease the pain  in Raja's oesophagus. India was a dry country and obtaining alcohol  was no easy matter. Krishna managed to arrange a permit through his  influential friends. He soon found that Raja was much easier to live  with after an afternoon drink. This drink had became a habit, kept  in moderate control. But it only added fuel to the rounds of criticism  already turned against Raja. With a balanced diet that excluded alcohol,  Annalisa succeeded in improving Raja's physical health. He continued  to be depressed, however, as he began seriously to question the worth  of his life's work. 
    At times, Rosalind still felt compelled to step between Krishna and  Raja to try to keep communications open, and to jolt Krishna into  secking a reconciliation with Raja. This was a vain expectation; neither  persuasion nor warnings would succeed. 
    In his insistence that Rosalind be given a lifetime interest in Arya  Vihara, Krishna was pursuing an issue that meant very little to either  Raja or Rosalind. Rosalind was entertaining hopes of one day living up  on Happy Valley. Memories of happier days at Arya Vihara were not  foremost in her mind. 
    Six weeks later Rosalind received a copy of a letter that Krishna had 
    written to Raja. He stated that he would never come back to Ojai if 
    Rosalind left Arya Vihara, that if anyone should leave it was he and 
    Raja and not her. He suggested that Arya Vihara now be given outright 
    274  
 
                         A House Divided 
    to Rosalind and after the death of Radha be returned to KWinc. He  demanded that Raja find some legal way to arrange this. 
    Raja tried to explain that a non-profit foundation could not give away  property to an individual. A few years later, his solution, honestly  based on what appeared to be Krishna's wishes, and one that met  with Rosalind's approval was to give the house to the Happy Valley  Foundation, of which Rosalind was a member, for her lifetime use.  This would anger Krishna. Krishna may have sincerely felt that Rosalind  needed his protection in her divorced state and that he was standing by  her against Raja. But he would remain adamant that it should not be  given to a foundation in which he had no part. 
    Since its inception, Krishna had kept himself aloof from the Happy  Valley Foundation, now he suddenly plunged himself into the affairs of  both the foundation and the school. He wrote a formal letter to Louis  Zalk as the President, stating that Dr Besant had intended that the  teachings be the major purpose of the foundation and that the school  had been established to ?(r)express these teachings as much and as deeply  as possible'. He said that during his last stay in Ojai he had noticed that  the school had wandered away from this purpose and that it must be  guided back on to the course for which it was intended or it would  slip into the wrong hands. He claimed to have to have heard this also  from various parents and from James Vigeveno, a Happy Valley board  member. James Vigeveno had been a devoted follower of Krishna since  the early Ommen days. He was in a difficult position, trying to represent  Krishna's wishes to Raja and now to the Happy Valley Board. 
    Since 1946, when the school was founded, Krishna had deliberately  remained in the background and had refused to have his name used  officially. Rosalind had often asked him to attend the board meetings,  to speak at assemblies, and, in short, to be as involved as he wished to be;  however, one thing he would never tolerate was sharing the limelight  with anyone. There were many luminaries now involved peripherally  and within the school, actualizing the basic principle that there should  be no single exclusive influence. The first thing in the morning there  were readings from a selection of philosophical works, suggested in  part by Aldous, followed by silence and music. In sports, emphasis was  on exercise rather than competition, and to discourage a competitive  attitude no grades were given out to the students, just written reports.  This policy stemmed from the educator, Edward Yeomans, as well as  Krishna's teachings, and was intrinsic to the spirit of the school. 
    Krishna's memory, as stated in his letter to Louis Zalk, of the founding  of Happy Valley and of the school is faulty at best and false in some 
    275      cases. While Annie Besant saw a strong link between the Happy Valley  and the world teacher, she did not consider the future development of  Happy Valley as a base for his teachings exclusively but rather as a  simultaneous flowering of the physical aspect of a spiritual ideal. He  himself backed away from her ideal. She-had paid him back for the  land when he moved his campsite to the lower valley and he had never  in all the years since uttered a hint that he felt future developments on  Happy Valley would be connected to him. When he wrote ostensibly  in impersonal terms of ?(r)the teachings', meaning of course his teachings,  he was assuming that these should be included in the sustaining fabric  of the school, and they were. In his letters to Rosalind through the  years, he had urged her to speak to the children regularly and to keep  a firm hand on the school, feeling confident that through her his ideas  would flow. Among these ideas was one that she took very seriously;  there should be no authority. 
    If his intentions were quite harmless, one can only wonder why in  1960, during the sixth months that he was in Ojai, when he was still  acting as if he were on close terms with Rosalind, he did not once try  to give suggestions to her directly. Why did he work behind her back  through James Vigeveno? Why didn't he come to her with the criticism  he heard from parents? And why did he wait for three years, after his  observations of the alleged shortcomings, to present his criticism? Louis  Zalk answered this letter with considerable finesse, while pointing out  certain clearly erroneous statements in Krishna's letter. This whole  incident would be the beginning of Louis's personal disillusionment  with Krishna. 
    19 August, 1963  Dear Krishnaji: 
    [ have been associated with the Foundation from its very beginning,  notably during the first bleak fifteen years or more. It was a dead piece  of land until Rosalind, with unstinting effort and devotion, began the  school some seventeen years ago. We all know the extent of the great  effort she has put into it. You, of course, were present and were a  very great help indeed. 
    I sincerely believe . . . that the only difference between James  [Vigeveno] and me [is] in the method of bringing your teaching to  bear in our school program so that it fully permeates our educational  plan. Now who among the nearby critics of the school has the creative  energy °– sense of dedication and capacity °– to properly present your  teaching to pupils? I must ask the question, ?(r)Would there not be a 
    276  
 
                         A House Divided 
    great confusion which would seriously jeopardize our present school  and fail of creating a school in harmony with your ideas?' Frankly, we  are short of teachers who, if they have understanding of your ideas,  could convey that understanding to the pupils who come to us. Can  they awaken Truth in the pupils without first making assertions and  generalizations? The present school is Rosalind's very life. To destroy  it is to destroy her. Do we really wish this to happen? Knowing the  goal of our school to be in harmony with your ideas, I cannot aid  and abet that which would mark her destruction. In my long and  reasonably successful business career, I have found that enthusiasm  is not always accompanied by the capacity to devise channels for  creative action. | have had the priceless privilege of listening to  your ideas for something like 35 years and have not varied in my  appreciation of their everlasting significance. In this background I  suggest most earnestly and urgently when you are here next year  that we have the privilege of discussing with you definite steps we  can take to improve our methods. We would like to have a direct  contact with you and not through interpreters and intermediaries,  however sincere they may be . . . 
    With much love,  LOUIS ZALK 
    Louis was soon to find, as Raja had already found, that this was  much too direct an approach to Krishna, who preferred to deal through  interpreters and intermediaries rather than involve himselfin debates. 
    Krishna's response to Louis was evasive about when he would return  to Ojai and made no reference at all to his letter that had stirred up so  much commotion. Rosalind had responded in her own way, insisting  that Krishna either explain his criticism precisely or withdraw it. She  was indignant that he had gone behind her back and discussed with  members of the Happy Valley Board, as well as parents in the school,  criticisms and proposals that he could have discussed with her. She  felt he should know well enough from experience in his own Indian  schools how easily an atmosphere of rebelliousness can sweep through  a school and how difficult it is to quell it. She was convinced that he  had now turned on her, as he had on Raja, and was using the school as  a route of attack. Krishna responded with innocent denial that he had  ever intended any criticism of her or the school and was only trying  to be helpful. 
    Louis and Erma used to come to us for dinner in Santa Barbara  every Monday night. During these visits he would sit and talk about 
    277  
 
                      the strange twist the path around Krishna had taken. Louis cast forth  no judgments, but his kindly face was shadowed with bewilderment as  to how a person could reach such heights in what he said and spread  such confusion by his actions. He was also beset with problems in his  own business. : 
    ?(r)When your house is on fire, don't worry about the tiger in your  kitchen,' he said. He wrote to Krishna: 
    30 October, 1963  Dear Krishnaji,  I have heard quite definitely from James Vigeveno with reference  to the School. 
    I have been going through a very very difficult year in my personal  affairs, in the effort to free myself from associations in the business  world. These have been trying and painful °– and my strength has  been seriously depleted. 
    Under these circumstances Rosalind -and Jim and Radha have  strongly urged that I let Rosalind discuss all matters of any nature  brought up by James [Vigeveno] to relieve me of that much nervous  strain. 
    Rosalind has been in association with you for over forty years °–  and I am sure she has knowledge of your viewpoint and ideas in  Education °– and can serve in this matter much better than I. I do  hope dear Krishnaji that you will understand. 
    Always with love and appreciation of you °–  LOUIS 
    In spite of his denials, Krishna had worked very hard on James  Vigeveno and had chosen him as his emissary to both Raja and the  Happy Valley Foundation. This well-meaning and honest man would  have his eyes rudely opened before long. 
    The past year had been a sad one for Rosalind in other ways than her  distress about Krishna's interference in the school. John Ingelman had  died in February. And on 22 November 1963 Aldous died. After Maria's  death nearly nine years before, Aldous had come to be a close friend and  was still a frequent visitor at Arya Vihara. Rosalind had encouraged him  to give his first series of university lectures at Santa Barbara in 1959. 
    He had modestly protested, ?(r)I am not a speaker, Rosalind, T am a  writer.?°¿ But she was so convinced by the one talk he had given at a  Happy Valley School graduation that she continued to urge him. Before  long he was offered more engagements than he could possibly meet. 
    278  
 
                   
A House Divided 
    One day he phoned us quite unexpectedly from the Santa Barbara  airport. 
    ?(r)Radha, this is Aldous,?°¿ as if anyone could fail to recognize that  beautiful voice! ?(r)I have been invited to the Center for Democratic  Studies, but no one has shown up to meet me.' 
    Before driving him to the Center, we took him home for tea and a  walk, which he always enjoyed as much as Krinsh did. I noticed that  some buttons were missing on his tweed jacket. 
    ?(r)Yes,?°¿ he said, ?(r)my sewing isn't very effective.?°¿ There wasn't a trace  of complaint in his voice, but [ couldn't help feeling a deep sense of  loss that Maria was no longer there as I tried to match the buttons  and sew them on firmly. Maria had been an excellent mender and 1  had heard her comment quite unfavourably about young women of  today who would throw out a good sock rather than pick up a needle  and mend it. 
    Whenever we went to Los Angeles, we made it a point to see  Aldous. He sometimes came for a simple lunch in the little Neutra  flat on Gower street. We had never got to know Laura, his second  wife, well. We realized very quickly that this marriage was entirely  different from his first. Maria had taken total and exacting care of  Aldous, always driving him herself, except on rare occasions when a  trusted friend filled in. Now Aldous took buses and planes around the  country from MIT to Berkeley by himself, staying in rooming houses  or small hotels and opening a can of beans for his dinner. While this  independence may have given him an appearance of new youthfulness,  he was actually fatally ill. In the flat in Hollywood on one of our last  times with Aldous he remarked on the strained relationship between  Krinsh and my father and wondered with the kindest sort of interest  what was going wrong. I could not tell him much then, but he said he  hoped my father would not feel himself to be the target of the trouble.  Aldous did not live to see how much of a target Raja would become. 
    In October Aldous was felled by the cancer which he had known for 
    some time afflicted him. It had started as a lump on his tongue. By the 
    time he considered an operation it would have meant losing his speech. 
    Both he and Laura shunned this maiming. It might or might not have 
    saved his life. The alternative treatments had not sufficed to stop the 
    malignancy; he suffered great pain as the disease moved into his larynx 
    and spine. Rosalind went to see him very often towards the end and 
    rubbed his feet as he told her that brought him more relief than anything 
    else. She had just returned to Ojai when she awoke the next morning and 
    felt strongly that she must go back to Aldous. She got in the car and was 
    279      driving over the Conejo pass on the six-lane freeway into Los Angeles  when suddenly she saw herself surrounded by white light and could not  see the cars or the highway. She assumed she had been in an accident and  that this was what death was like, but then the light faded. She drove on,  so intent on reaching Aldous that she thought no more about it. 
    Aldous and Laura had been living with a friend in the Hollywood  hills since their house, with all his papers, had burned down in 1961.  That morning when Rosalind arrived, Laura rushed up to her, saying  that Aldous was dying. There was some commotion about setting up an  oxygen tank and while waiting in another room, Rosalind heard about  the assassination of John F. Kennedy but did not take it in, even when  the doctor said not to tell Aldous about the President. Aldous could  still talk clearly when she first saw him, but was very restless. When  she offered to rub his feet he said he would prefer it on his tummy.  By early afternoon he could not talk any more but could write on a  pad. Soon after he was too weak to drink water and by late afternoon  he was in a coma. When Laura asked if she should give him LSD, the  doctor murmured to Rosalind that it didn't make any difference what  she did as Aldous was too far gone. 
    When Maria was dying Aldous had whispered in her ear until the last,  knowing that the hearing is the last sense to go. The words he used in his  novel Island give a close description of those final moments. Rosalind  attempted to use the same words as well as she could recall them. 
    Think of those lights and shadows on the sea, those blue spaces 
    between the clouds. Think of them, and then let go of your thinking. 
    Let go of it, so that the not-Thought can come through. Things into 
    Emptiness. 
    Emptiness into Suchness. Suchness into things again, into your 
    own mind . . . Let go now, let go . . . go on into the Light, into 
    the peace, into the living peace of the Clear Light . . .1 
    Rosalind found the end ?(r)strangely quiet, peaceful and beautiful. One  was completely uplifted and full of awe and love °– no tears'.2 
    It was not until that evening when she drove down to Hollywood  Boulevard that she saw the headlines. President Kennedy had been  shot, strangely enough, just when she had been enveloped in the light.  Typically she never connected these two occurrences until it was pointed  out to her. 
    Since Raja had married Annalisa, Rosalind had kept entirely out of  his life. Her relationship with Krishna was becoming tenuous, with 
    280  
 
                         A House Divided 
    increasingly infrequent communications between them. He still  professed not to understand what he had done to upset her and  Louis. 
    As Jimmy was on the Happy Valley Foundation Board in 1964, he and  [ undertook to clarify the issue. We were planning to spend the summer  on an extensive drive through southern Europe and were delighted to  include a visit to Krinsh on our itinerary. He was staying at the Chalet  Tanneg in Gstaad where he stayed every summer, thanks to Vanda  Scaravelli's generosity. It was a lovely spot on a hill overlooking the  valley with a winding road leading up from the town. Krinsh was alone  in the house when we arrived in our new Volkswagen with our two  children. Although Vanda was away, he had arranged with her that we  could stay there. He helped us in with the luggage, graciously showed  us our rooms right next to his, and offered us some tea. After three  years' absence from him, his hospitality made me feel a little less than  family but soon his old affectionate ways returned and everything felt  very much as it always had, though the style of life was quite different  from any [ had ever seen him in before. There was a shiny new Mercedes  in the garage. Vanda had set up the kitchen with a cook and butler from  Rome; the butler wore white gloves to serve an incredibly good meal at a  formally set table. The whole set-up was extremely posh, much more so  than the style in which Vanda herself lived in either Rome or Florence.  Yet the formality did not extend to Krinsh's attitude towards us and  certainly not to our behaviour. Our ten-and eleven-year-old children  were made to feel perfectly at home and he seemed to take real delight  in listening to them and watching them unwind after a long day in  the car. 
    The very first evening, after the children were in bed, we launched  into our mission. We explained how much distress his criticism of the  school had caused, what a controversy had been created among the  students, the teachers and the feelings that had been fomented against  my mother. Krinsh looked genuinely stricken. 
    ?(r)Kittums, 1 wrote that letter only to help her, it was not intended  in any way to do her harm.?°¿ He grasped my knee and shook it as he  frequently did when making a point. 
    ?(r)I shall write and straighten it all out now that I understand the  problem,' he promised. 
    There was nothing we had told him that Rosalind had not already  written him in letters and communicated to him over the phone, but  we felt reassured that he did now understand, for he explained that he  never intended that the Happy Valley should be identified with the name 
    281  
 
                             of Krishnamurti and emphasized that the Happy Valley was a separate  legal body from KWInc and that he had no intention of interfering with  it in any way. 
    The next morning, with the issue of the Happy Valley Foundation  settled, Krinsh proposed we all take a drive and enjoy some of the  local scenery. He guided us to Diablerets, where we rode on the ski  lift across a valley, green as California could never be green. I thought  of Villars long ago, when we had gone for early morning walks as  the cows headed for pasture, the sound of cowbells, Krinsh rubbing  his hair in the pine needles. His face then had been full of laughter,  his smile radiant. I looked at his face now. It was slightly puffed with  allergy. His mouth did not smile fully, even when he laughed. There  was a distance in him, his eyes were not quiet. I felt he was not ?(r)living  in the moment' as he always had advocated. But suddenly a small brown  furry creature scuttled between two rocks below. There was a flash of  animation, a gleam of the old joy that had enriched so many moments  in my childhood. ?(r)A marmot,' he said. 
    We only stayed three days and each morning after breakfast we went  to his room to talk. On the last morning Krinsh said with intense feeling  that it was all wrong that my parents had divorced. ?(r)That divorce should  never have happened,?°¿ he said, grasping and shaking my knee again for  emphasis. I could not understand why he should care so much about  that one relatively small disaster in the face of the overall situation. I  could not see how, at this point, it would change anything for him  one way or the other. But he strongly disagreed. ?(r)We must all remain  together. It is the way it has always been and must stay like that.' 
    I told him I thought that was hopeless, that they had all now gone  their own ways and perhaps for the best. 
    ?(r)Don't you see?' he insisted. ?(r)It is all one thing. The KWinc and the  Happy Valley.?°¿ I could not finally make out whether he was really  talking about the two foundations, or the three individuals, or whether  in his mind it really was all the same. Every time I tried to clarify what  was being said he looked despairing and said I did not understand - which was all too true. He then shifted to another subject, although  actually closely related. 
    ?(r)They say Mrs Beghe is quite mad,?°¿ he said with a sardonic smile I 
    knew well. He had avoided using her given name or referring to her 
    as Raja's wife. 
    ?(r)Who are ?°„they??°¿' I asked. 
    ?(r)People who know her have told me that.' 
    ?(r)Well, it's not true. If anyone in this whole mess is mad it is certainly 
    282  
 
                         A House Divided 
    not Annalisa.' I did not know her very well, but well enough to defend  her without doubt on this point. 
    He moved from this to my father, and here I was on less sure ground,  for I had not been a witness to many of the incidents in the past few  years. 
    ?(r)Do you know °– he has not given me any money? I had to beg from  Signora Vanda to pay my doctor's bill in Rome.'  I had no answer to this and the subject was dropped. I started to  describe the trip we were taking and he became more and more 
    concerned, feeling it would be exhausting to drive all the way to  Greece.  ?(r)Why don't you put the car on a ferry in Trieste instead?'  ?(r)We can't afford that; it is cheaper to drive.' 
    With this he jumped up from the bed on which we were both sitting,  went to a drawer and came toward me with a wad of American Express  cheques. 
    ?(r)Here, Kittums, is three thousand dollars, take it.'  ?(r)Where did you get it?' I asked.  ?(r)Rajagopal sent it.'  ?(r)Then why not use it to pay your doctor's bills?'  This did not throw him in the least and he answered without hesi- tation, 
    ?(r)I can't. It's for something else.' 
    I did not consider this a very satisfactory explanation, but realized  there was no point in continuing the conversation. I could hardly have  guessed then that nearly twenty years later I would be repeating this  conversation under oath. Nor did I know then that Raja had acceded  to his request for $50,000 to buy land in Saanen (a village near Gstaad)  for the summer talks. A few years later a much greater sum, close to a  million dollars, would be asked of Raja to build an elaborate hall. This  Raja would refuse, not only because he was restricted by tax laws,  a factor Krishna refused to comprehend, but because he well knew  Krishna's penchant for wanting to build: halls, schools, places where  he could be housed without the stigma of personal ownership, but  which required unending management and upkeep. Raja was coming  to feel it was time for all this to stop. He certainly wanted no more  property to worry about. 
    On 1 September 1964, after eighteen years and in spite of Krishna's  insistent advice, Rosalind resigned as Director of the Happy Valley  School. She felt she had found a very competent person to take over 
    283  
 
                   
 
   
    and she was exhausted by the past years of emotional turmoil. On  29 November Louis Zalk died, leaving Rosalind on the front line of  the Happy Valley Foundation. There was no one to replace Louis' and  Robert's financial support of both the school and the foundation. The  endowment Robert had left had not been large and had been put into  the physical plant. Louis's endowment was tied into a private trust  which gave only limited sums each year. Erma continued to contribute  as much as she could, but the burden of making ends meet now rested  with Rosalind. 
    In a sense it was fortunate that she had this weighty responsibility  which she had already sustained for many years. Her life was her own  and still very full. Because of her work she would emerge intact from  the breakdown of her two closest relationships. She would in time  regain some, but never all, of her radiant optimism and sense of fun. 
    284  
 
                         28 
    A New Circle in the Shadow 
    Two years passed before we saw Krinsh again. In the summer of  1966, Jimmy and I exchanged our house in Santa Barbara for a friend's  house in a small French village near Dreux. From there we drove  to Gstaad, where once more we were invited to stay at the Chalet  Tanegg. 
    That year we met some of what would be Krinsh's new circle,  although we did not realize their importance then. He also had another  new Mercedes since 1964, given to him by a rich admirer. ?(r)Don't tell  Rajagopal,' he said. Then spontaneously he asked 1f we would like to  have it; an offer as impractical to implement as it was generous. I could  see he was caught between the onerous discomfort of ownership and  the joy of possession. 
    We were on easy enough terms with Krinsh's new friends and even  teased one of them about having to use Krinsh's brand of soap and  toothpaste. This was a familiar story to me, for I had seen since  childhood that Krinsh wanted those close to him to use whatever  product he was at the moment sold on. One day two large suitcases  were brought by one of the secretaries from the London office. They  contained silk monogrammed shirts and ties from Savile Row; sets for  Krishna and for his new favourite. I had from that moment the intuition  that this association would lead to trouble, but whose trouble I did not  then guess. I did suggest to Krishna that it was going a bit far to dictate  the toothpaste a person should use, but he told me very sternly to keep  out of it. 
    While he failed to credit Raja with having provided the purchase  money for the Saanen land, he made plenty of ado about his refusal  to send funds for other purposes. He had not directly asked Raja to  provide his new helper's salary, but used Doris Pratt's intervention.  Raja, perhaps to Krishna's surprise, agreed to this salary as well as  expenses; however, when the next request came for a lifetime annuity  for this present ?(r)favourite', Raja reminded Krishna of the many loyal,  long-time friends who had worked steadfastly over the years: were they 
    285  
 
                   
 
    to be overlooked in favour of such a newcomer? Krinsh used this refusal  as an example of his financial ordeal with Raja. But I was fortunately,  for once, aware of the logic behind Raja's decision; a decision which  would prove fortunate for Krinsh, though he never gave Raja credit  for it. In due course, the newcomer would be banished from the new  circle for reasons not made public, though there were those who felt he  had been harshly treated. I felt compelled to warn Krinsh again, in spite  of his severity toward me over the toothpaste issue, that in my opinion  such an intimate appearing association could create an unfavourable  impression. Instead of scolding me as I expected for such a mundane  expression of respectability, so contrary to my upbringing, he did not  express either a positive or negative response, but instead answered that  he was aware of complications. From what he said, it seemed likely that  there would be a bit of reshuffling before the new circle took its final  shape. 
    Krinsh's young yoga teacher, Desikachar, was there too. Vanda had  been put to some embarrassment over the switch in yoga teachers.  Desikachar's uncle, the famous lyengar, had been the teacher every  summer and expected this to continue. Krishna had found lyengar  too rough and without notifying Vanda had arranged for Desikachar  to come over from India °– leaving Vanda the difficult task of explaining  to lyengar. 
    It was not altogether a pleasant visit for me. It had become too obvious  that there was intense hostility toward my father. I was used to quarrels  between him and Krinsh, but neither of them had ever discussed the  other with me. Krinsh now made innuendoes which were worse than  outright accusations because in arguing against innuendoes I found they  took on a concrete value whether right or wrong which made them all  the more difficult to dispel. 
    Krinsh had changed even more since our previous visit. He had always  loved to tell jokes at mealtimes, mostly culled from the Reader's Digest.  He had a very strong social commitment to be the entertaining host.  But now he seemed withdrawn, his eyes veiled not only by the long  straight lashes but by an inner abstraction. The rest of us carried on  easily together. One day Krinsh observed us all laughing heartily and  commented a trifle caustically, ?(r)American humour, [ see,?°¿ as though he  were quite unable to understand it. 
    One day on a walk with Krinsh on the hillside above Chalet Tanegg,  suddenly asked him why he still talked after nearly forty years of saying  very much the same thing.  ?(r)If everyone took you literally, listened carefully, and took in what you 
    286  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    are saying, they needn't come back unless they want to be followers and  you say you don't want followers. What would happen if your audience,  by really listening to you, disappeared?' 
    ?(r)That is a paradox,' he answered in a moment of open candour. ?(r)I  speak to live, I do not live to speak, if there were no more talks I  would die.' 
    No wonder then, I thought, that he needed more and more, rather  than less and less of an audience. The older and frailer he became, the  more he would feel that he must have a life sustained by listeners.  Thousands of them. He would travel round and round the world,  exerting all the strength and energy he had that it might be renewed  as fast as it was spent. 
    We returned to California more than a month ahead of Krinsh, who  would be bringing his new circle with him to Ojai. I had reported the  conversations and events during our stay in Gstaad to my father as fully  as possible. He was interested in our impressions but as usual offered no  side comments. I think he was withholding judgment about Krishna's  new associates. He could not have had the faintest idea of what, in the  end, his relationship with them would be. 
    Krishna was now insisting on being re-instated on KWinc and would  ask that his new associates be put on also. He suddenly wanted to assume  full responsibility for KWiInc's activities. Although Krishna had been  an original member, he had soon resigned, saying he preferred to  leave that end of the work completely to Raja. Thereafter Krishna  had never shown the slightest interest in KWInc, any more than he  had in its predecessor, the Star Publishing Trust, which had served  the same purpose. Both had been established to handle organizational  and publishing affairs. Raja's role in the work had always been clear  to him apd, until now, Krishna had given every indication that it was  clear to him in the same way. As Raja saw it, he was not working  for Krishna. It was because of his promise to Nitya to stand by  Krishna, and Mrs Besant's request that he help in the work, that  Raja had undertaken this life-long commitment: a commitment that  would enable Raja to fulfil much, but not all, of his inherent potential,  by employing both his financial acumen and his literary skills. Raja  considered KWInc, which he had created, the funds which he had raised  for it and managed, and all the publishing were his responsibility in a  venture centred around, but not run by, Krishna. This arrangement  was fully clear to Krishna all along, if not to the world at large. He  had never expressed the slightest criticism of any aspect of Raja's  performance. 
    287      Krishna had always enjoyed acquiring land and building on it. He  did not like to stay around and manage this material side of his affairs,  however. Over the years Raja had expertly organized and maintained  all the properties for Krishna's use as well as helping with the schools  in India. He could not see the justification for acquiring yet more  property for which he no longer felt up to taking responsibility. He  knew from experience that Krishna would not do so. Now Krishna  was again in a mood to expand. He still wanted a centre in Saanen  and would eventually acquire a costly estate in England, which would  be used for a school. Perhaps the war years at Ojai had been too  simple and too confined a way of life for him. That way of life had  been appropriate to the time but was not in Krishna's natural style, as  both my parents had discovered in India and as I had seen for myself in  Gstaad. Raja, however, would not sympathize with these extravagant  plans, nor would he co-operate. In the past, Krishna might have felt  he could persuade Raja to his way of thinking, but now, because  of Raja's knowledge of his long affair with Rosalind, Krishna was  afraid of him. He dared not challenge him openly but he wanted  Raja out of his way. Before long he would accuse him, behind his  back, of usurping his responsibilities, his money, his property. Raja  realized that since Krishna's affair with Rosalind had been brought  into the open among them, Krishna's behaviour had changed. But  he was not willing to give up his life's work and be replaced by  Krishna's new friends because of Krishna's uncomfortable conscience  towards him. 
    Raja had lost a staunch supporter when Louis died, for in spite of  the distance that his marriage to Annalisa had put between them, Raja  still had Louis's firm trust. Louis often told us that he would never  have contributed so heavily to KWInc had it not been for his faith in  my father's integrity and good sense. The death of such friends and  the alienation of others due to Krishna's campaign against him would  isolate Raja more and more. He seldom left his house now, even to see  us in Santa Barbara. He no longer went to dinner parties, or played  chess, except occasionally with his grandchildren, his days of travelling  were over and nothing in the world seemed to bring him more than  fleeting moments of lightheartedness. 
    Krinsh still maintained a privately loving manner toward Rosalind, 
    although I noticed that he showed a new reserve when in the presence 
    of the new circle. Being in the company of all of them at once was 
    obviously uncomfortable for him. 
    When Krishna said goodbye to Rosalind that autumn, he held her 
    288  
 
                   
A New Circle in the Shadow 
    hand tightly for a brief moment and with a strange finality said, ?(r)?°„The  first love is the best love.' 
    Before he left for Europe, 1 had one last talk with Krinsh when  he came again to our house for dinner. We took a long walk on the  beach. I begged him to put an end to the hostilities with my father  and strangely enough he suddenly promised me that he would. The  next day Raja said he had a most encouraging phone conversation with  Krinsh in which they had both agreed to settle matters amicably, Krinsh  promising to negotiate directly with him. However only three weeks  later I heard again that Raja had received ultimatums, made almost as  soon as Krishna arrived in Europe. With this reversal I felt the situation  to be most depressing. So strong and instinctive had Krinsh's promise  to me seemed that I had felt he really meant it. Perhaps he had at that  moment. 
    I had my own strange farewell. Several months later, I had a dream  that brought me, as no outward incident could do, a sad sense of  finality. 
    I dreamed all my family were staying at a beautiful inn, on top of a  granite mountain with gentle slopes of smooth rock, studded with small  pines, surrcunding us. The others were gathered 1in the large, monastic  living-room and I had left them for the moment to see if Krinsh was  all right. Someone had mentioned he might be ill. I walked through  a long stone corridor to his room and he came out of the bathroom,  rubbing oil in his hair and saying he did not feel at all well. He had  on a mustard-coloured robe, the only colour there except for the dark  green of the pine trees. 
    He asked me to stay and talk with him for a moment. He was deeply  concerned that he would not live much longer, and before he died he  must: return to India and talk to his father, whom he had not seen  for many years and with whom he had not had a good relationship.  He wanted to ask his father to take care of Rajagopal and give him  a house. It was extremely important to Krinsh that Rajagopal have  this house and that Krinsh's father alone could provide it. But he  thought he would have great difficulty in persuading his father to  do this. 
    I offered to go to India with Krinsh, partly because I wanted very  much to go to India, but mostly because I felt sure that even though  I were a stranger to his father, I could help. Krinsh was touched and  most warm and affectionate about my offer and we walked together  out of his room and up a steep rocky pathway toward the crest of the  narrow peak. 
    289  
 
                   
 
    Just as we approached the top, Krinsh, who was in the lead, turned to  face me, sat down and became a figure of stone on a stone chair, similar  in pose to the statue of Lincoln in Lincoln's Memorial. But this was  not a solid or smoothly sculptured statue. It was of loosely assembled  stones, each piece roughly the shape of a hand or leg. I desperately  began to pull apart the rocks, hoping to find Krinsh somewhere inside,  but suddenly I looked up and saw the sky flaming with sunset. [ walked  to the top and looked over at the extraordinarily beautiful sea below and  felt Krinsh in all that, the sea and the sunset, and what was really him,  his essence, had gone there in freedom and left behind the dross which  was the rock. My sadness at losing him so suddenly left me, knowing  that he was free. But when [ awoke the sadness was there again, not  because I believed that he was dead, but I was struck by the contrast  between my dream and reality, and I thought that if either he or Raja  were to die now how terrible it would be for the one left and for all  ot us. 
    Krishna continued to persuade everyone around him, including Doris  Pratt, Raja's old friend and associate in the London office, that not  only was Raja arbitrarily barring him from KWInc, but that he had  withheld and misspent funds intended for Krishna's use. Many of the  old associates who had worked with Raja for over three decades and  with whom he had enjoyed a compatible relationship now suddenly,  along with Krishna's new friends, took Krishna's part, criticizing Raja  for being possessive and obstinate. Raja refused to explain what underlay  the recal conflict between him and Krishna; he still hoped to protect both  Krishna and Rosalind, as well as the thousands who he felt would be  deeply hurt and disillusioned if they knew the truth. Krishna refused to  recognize that before any new course of action could be taken, he must  do Raja the justice of discussing their lives, with all the ramifications that  had developed over the past forty years. After all it was Krishna's actions,  not Raja's, that had put their personal lives on a discordant footing.  Before their relationship was cleared of past misunderstandings, Raja  refused to be further drawn into obvious complications with a whole  new order of people and schemes. 
    What now looked like an open break compelled Rosalind to try again  to intercede. 
    Ojai, California Jan ??67  Dear Krinsh,  Thanks for your letter from Rome. I do hope all is well with you. 
    290  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    One has a strange feeling you are in orbit and not touching the earth.  Please take time to work things out quietly. You once said you could  never even lift a little finger against me. Surely this must apply to  Raja also. I know I wouldn't or couldn't act against either of you.  I also feel that you do not mind anything I may say to you. I hope  I am right about this so here goes: 
    At the outset let me say for you and R to have and show such  differences in your old age will lead to nothing but mischief and  calamity. It will involve others who cannot possibly know what had  been and . . . leave open the door for great trouble. Please give some  weight & thought to all this and let's have some peace. Otherwise it  is so stupid to end in a mess when one had such an opportunity to  do something fine. I wonder why you do not seem to see what all  this can lead to? Keep well and I hope we meet again soon. 
    Love,  ROSALIND 
    After six years of fruitless discussion, Krishna was still fulminating 
    about Arya Vihara. Where he had once clearly stated in a letter to Raja 
    that he wanted the house to be ?(r)given to Rosalind outright', he now 
    was accusing Raja of making arrangements behind his back and using 
    this as another reason why he must be reinstated on KWilnc.  Rosalind once more tried to clarify the situation in writing, after an 
    abortive telephone call to him in London. 
    Ojai June 12, 1967  What a strange state of affairs! It goes from bad to worse. I must tell  you the sequence of events leading to ?(r)Arya Vihara'. Mima phoned  me and.said they had a meeting in which it was decided to turn A. V.  over to the H.V.F. for me to be able to use it in my lifetime. She said  this was the only way they could see to fulfill your wishes. They all  felt that the people who had put money in A.V. were anyway the  people who supported H.V. There was also a letter from you saying  they were both one and the same [as Krinsh had said to me in Gstaad  in 1964]. 
    I was surprised then about this offer, as once in passing when  you mentioned it to me, I said that you might turn it over to  the H.V.F. and I w'ld give you the money from the sale of Saro  Vihara [the Logan house which Rosalind had inherited]. You did  not seem to like the idea of an exchange and made me feel that  you wanted to let Radha and me use it as a very kind gesture 
    291  
 
                      from you to us . . . You have no reason whatsoever to be con- cerned about this matter. Please feel free to do what you like about  it in any way -sell °– let others live here, anything. I will not  mind in the least and I am only deeply appreciative for the many  good years as well as the difficult ones that I have lived here. |  thank you from the bottom of my heart for making this possible.  [ really do not think I could have done the work I did with- out the quiet and strength I got from living here all these years.  Fini. 
    Now for the second part: I hate doing this; I would not be a  person who was ever a friend, had love, or was to be trusted if  [ did not speak out now. I did this long ago when you arrived in  Australia with Nitya. I broke his confidence to try and make peace  between you before he died. Krinsh, Krinsh, what is happening  to you? Such a betrayal with one who was so devoted in spite of  everything. I told you that he [Raja] felt you were out to destroy  him and now you are doing everything to prove it. Is it for revenge,  on account of the way he has spoken to you, money, property,  power °– what? You discredit him to others °– the talk is ugly and  libelous. Send legalistic letters °– highly inaccurate. How unhappy  everyone is! All this has completely humiliated and insulted him  beyond belief. 
    You came here in an odd manner. Most of the time spent on your  teeth, talks, people and did you really think in this way you could  solve anything decently? What can I say to a person who says he  refuses to talk or listen? I have been told that I seemed to be the  only person who could still talk to you. That you eliminated in  one way or another all those who do not say what you want to  hear and can only tolerate those who are sycophants or ?(r)yes' men.  This makes all around you suspect. What a dangerous position to  be in!! Like a king who was brought up to think he could do no  wrong . . . Now [ feel I cannot talk to you. There are no words  to say how sad and tragic all this has become. What is it you  want? Do you know what you have done? What an ending to your  lives! Louis' heart was broken when you became authoritarian. I  know he wrote you this . . . No matter what has gone wrong  with R and things have gone wrong . . . for you to betray him  now, if you couldn't help him, but to hurt him so terribly can  only make matters worse. I don't like to look at where all this  must lead. He has spoken to me as badly as to you but should  I harm him for this? In spite of all the above the Happy Valley 
    292  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    School is bursting with your ideas which is after all the great part  of your life. 
    In his reply to this letter Krishna ignored her explanation and reiterated  that Arya Vihara must not be given to Happy Valley. He told her that  she knew nothing of what was going on and that he must be in charge  of KWinc. He signed off with as much love as ever. 
    As Rosalind had pointed out, there was nothing for Krishna to be so  anxious about. It had only been a suggestion to give Arya Vihara to the  Happy Valley. There was no thought of acting without his approval.  He seemed determined to find fault with Raja, even where there was  none whatever. The matter of Arya Vihara was dropped; no further  action would be taken. 
    Rosalind continued to be distressed by Krishna's refusal to see what  she felt were the obvious dangers of his present course. She wrote  again, this time more desperate in tone: 
    June 22, 1967  At least you did write to me and [ am going to try to state the situation  as clearly as I can. Apart from all pros and cons that you should set out  to damage & defame presumably an old friend, regardless of what you  think he has done °– is against you not him . . . It is all so contrary  to what you have said to others. Don't you see this? Before you act  so hastily and rashly do please I beg you give a little more time ~  space °– thought. There is just too much pride from both sides. It  is so tragic. At the outset let me say I would not do anything to  hurt either of you, about this I am clear. There is only one thing  possible now as I see it °– for you to come here alone and get things  straight.. 
    Even so it may be too late as there is so much damage done already.  You are obviously getting very stupid advice from some who really  do not know what they are doing. 
    Everything is in good order °– every cent accounted for [and]  could be explained to you very simply if you saw all the rec- ords. You never wanted to be bothered before. At one time you  were asked to be a member of both boards and you refused. I  can't talk to R, he blows up at me about you & me wrecking his  marriage, repeats everything from the past. He had an operation  which went wrong & must have another. Mima begs him not  to die and leave her with this mess. I beg you to come here.  I will do anything I can to make things easy. Dear Krinsh can 
    293  
 
                   
 
      you hear me °– do you remember me!! Dear God let something 
    penetrate. 
    Again Krishna mistook the thrust of Rosalind's letter. Feeling she  had threatened him, he warned that he would no longer answer such  letters, that no good could come from them. 
    In spite of this, Rosalind made another attempt to meet with Krishna  in person when she took Ermie, who was suffering from back pain,  to the Bircher-Benner clinic in the autumn of 1967. She left Erma at  the clinic and met Krishna in London, where at Wimbledon, near  the scene of much happier times spent with Miss Dodge, she tried  to explain that Raja had always wanted to carry out his wishes, that  he had never acted against either of them and that he deserved at least  an attempt at reconciliation. Krishna was absolutely impervious to her  words, withdrawn and haughty. She felt totally unable to reach him.  He left for Rome. In London Rosalind met an old friend who told  her many disturbing rumours about Krishna and the things that were  being said by him and his new associates about Raja. At first this man  gave her permission to use his name with Krishna about the ?(r)anti-Raja  sentiment' and then withdrew it, feeling Krishna might resent it and  that might block the possibility of a friendly conversation with him  in the future. Ten days later when Rosalind saw Krishna in Rome,  he had shifted aspects or, as she saw it, personalities. He was loving  and appeared willing to talk. Rosalind asked him what she and Mima  should do to help make things right again. She asked him also what he  thought he should do. Krishna replied that he would return to Ojai, see  Raja alone and try to straighten things out. Rosalind finally felt hopeful,  but she had found talking to the ?(r)two Krishnas', one in London and one  in Rome, a strange and unsettling experience. She could not believe he  was the same person both times. The one in Rome was the one she  had always known. 
    Soon after, Krishna wrote his last letter to her. It was peculiarly in  the style of his earlier letters, written over several days, full of concern  for her well-being, with promises to set things right when he returned  to California the following summer, detailed and gloomy descriptions  of London and of Rome -both cities drenched in rain. He felt his age  acutely and looked forward to peace and quiet. ?(r)My love's with you  always,?°¿ he ended. 
    Krishna did not keep his promise to Rosalind. He must have known 
    when he made it that he could never bring himself to confront Raja 
    alone. In the spring of 1968, when Mima was in Paris, Krishna asked 
    294  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    her to try and settle matters for him with Raja, adding that if there was  no co-operation he (Krishna) would disassociate himself from KWinc.  Mima informed Krishna at the time that she would only go so far as to  relay the message, not attempt to settle matters between them. When  Mima returned to Ojai with this message, Raja replied that if Krishna  wanted to talk about such matters he must talk to him directly, not send  messengers. Krishna later accused Mima of not keeping her promise to  settle things for him and of lying when she protested that she had not  promised to do that. 
    Krishna, unable to bend Raja to his will, sent a new associate of  his, a stranger to Raja, to ?(r)investigate' the situation. The report, after  investigating the way in which KWiInc had been structured and func- tioned, all well known and approved by Krishna at the time, such as  giving Raja the power of attorney over KWinc, now incited Krishna  to claim that he had not known what he was signing. Even if he had  never bothered to read what he was signing that was certainly not  Raja's fault. 
    Thus continued the splitting and re-aligning of many old friendships.  Those who were not by temperament devotees could more easily see  Raja's side and would come more and more to stand by him as the  situation became even worse. 
    Those who considered themselves friends of both parties tried during  the next few years to bring about a reconciliation: with a few it became  almost a mission that they must achieve; for others there was a great  deal, psychologically, at stake. Many people who had adhered closely  to Krishna over the years had done so because in various ways they  felt he had literally saved them, and that they owed him a great  deal for this. Others who had worked closely with Raja and were  in a position to know most of the facts, which partly by nature and  partly of necessity, Raja had kept private, had to face a slow, bitter  disillusionment with Krishna °– the same disillusionment that Raja had  faced many years before and had lived with, coming to believe, much  as Rosalind now believed, that Krishna was more than one person. Until  a person had his own experience with the other side of Krishna, he was  susceptible to believing Krishna's charges against Raja. Many old friends  were deeply hurt when Krishna abruptly terminated his relationship  with them because they were intrepid enough to show the slightest  criticism. Among those, Carlo and Nadine Suar°ß|s, who for years had  opened their homes to Krishna for lengthy stays both in Alexandria and  in Paris and helped to translate his talks, most unexpectedly received  this treatment. 
    295  
 
                   
 
    As Krishna well knew, the Suar°ß|s had lost nearly everything in  the Egyptian revolution and their circumstances were far from easy;  nevertheless, when he was in Paris, they always invited him to stay  with them. But on the occasion when he had asked them to include  a new friend, Krishna inspected the guest room where Nadine Suar°ß|s  had invited the young man to stay and said, ?(r)A grown man cannot stay  in such a hole.?°¿ Nadine told me this story a few years later, her gentle  face suffused with baffled unhappiness. ?(r)How could he say such a thing?'  she asked while showing us the room, which was airy and comfortable  with a bed, desk and chair. Whether Krishna's behaviour stemmed from  some irritation toward the Suar°ß|s, the cause of which I am unaware, or  whether he was deliberately weeding out all the old-timers who were  not totally committed to him and opposed to Raja, I cannot say. 
    In my case, 1 had seen since childhood the various aspects of their  triangular relationship. When I was very young, I assumed that ours  was a normal household and that everyone had a Daddy, a Mummy  and a Krinsh; it was a great surprise to me to find, when I started school,  that this was not the case. But as there were so many other aspects of our  life that were unusual, I never cast a judgmental eye over what went on  under my nose. I never allowed myself to take sides in the arguments  that [ overheard. When they were all getting along apparently happily,  [ sensed that I lived in a rare and most privileged household, full of  interesting events and people. There was a sense of purpose, service and  worth in our daily lives, a sense re-inforced by the attitude towards us  of onlookers and visitors. | was aware always ofa solid front of three  loving and protective adults and I was never the cause of disagreement  amongst them. 
    It was with the greatest reluctance that finally in my early adulthood  [ had to separate them into three individuals and try to look at them  objectively, sorting out their rights and wrongs. 1 found it hard to  admit weaknesses and faults in any of them. On the surface both of  my parents had more abrasive and generally difficult personalities than  Krinsh, at least when they were upset, which happened more and more  frequently. Krinsh, on the other hand was almost always lovable, fun  and easy to be with. He never said a word against my mother to me,  but starting in 1964 he began the grave insinuations against my father  which demanded my attention. 
    At this point he didn't refer to him as my father but only as Rajagopal 
    and then finally as ?(r)he', as if the name were unspeakable. My father 
    would frequently lament Krinsh's treatment of him, but with the grief 
    296  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    born of a lost friendship rather than the hatred of a discovered enemy.  Krinsh's hatred ran so deep that he could hardly speak at all, as if it  welled up through a frozen crust, for he was not, in his own view of  himself and that of his devotees, supposedly able to feel hatred. But  he did not seem to try to hide it from me. In 1966 in Gstaad, when I  asked him why he had allowed my father to give his life to this work,  feeling about him as he must have for so many years, Krinsh replied  that he had carried him along because Raja was incapable of making  any other life for himself. This was such an absurd statement that I  was stunned into silence. I knew that my father had attained with high  honours a further degree from Cambridge. I had been a witness all my  life to his extraordinary efficiency and capability in the management of  a complex organization and his deep and very human concern for the  people involved in it. I realized then that there was no hope of ever  returning to what I, perhaps incorrectly, remembered as the harmonious  balance between them. A few years later my mother-in-law, on a visit  to Gstaad, asked Krishna how, after being friends for so long, things  could be so bad between him and Raja and strangely, he replied, ?(r)He  was my friend but I was never his.' 
    At Gstaad that summer Krishna had instigated a new attack on Raja.  He called together his friends from Ojai to taped meetings in which he  condemned Raja before the group and renounced all further association  with him. Krishna them recommended that these tapes be played to all  who wished to hear them. They even circulated as far as Australia.  News of this had naturally upset Raja in the extreme. 
    Krishna was to stay in California for several months, mostly in  Malibu, and it was here that Rosalind made one more futile attempt  to bring about a reconciliation between him and Raja. Krishna said he 
    would allow her a half-hour only of his time. He also insisted that his  hostess remain in the room. Rosalind returned to Ojai to write another  hopeless appeal. 
    3 November, 1968  After yesterday's conversation one is left with a terrible foreboding  of doom . . . The stage is all set °– everything you say °– everything  youdo . . . I tried to shock °– to awaken you to reality and it had no  noticeable affect on you. There seems to be a total lack of feeling 
    °– without kindness °– love or charity. Nethercot in his book The  Four Lives °– wrote among other things that it seems you hypnotize  yourself to believe what you want to.! Yesterday I said you were a  dual personality because you are often different people. For example  297   the one I spoke to yesterday was like the one I spoke to in London °–  completely different from Rome. What is tragic is that many of your  ideas were great and helpful and you are ruining it all now. Don't  you see how contrary all this is to everything you have always stood  for? What you have said regarding human relations and values? You  have always said that any disagreement about material things was a  reflection of wrong attitude in oneself. That you should descend to  this kind of vicious inciting is incredible, as you have done by talking  to so many and sending a tape around! These people are not directly  concerned and are only harmed by being made aware of this conflict.  Surely you and your advisers know that one doesn't air one's problems  in public but deals directly with the principles. What you are doing is  unheard of even among ordinary people. This is why so many people  are deeply, silently shocked.  In the end no matter how you feel or what you do, I have a grave  sense of responsibility out of the past. [ would see to it that you had  whatever care was necessary. This was a pledge I made Nitya the  last I saw him. I will keep it.  In January 1968 Krishna went in person, accompanied by members  of his new circle, to the Attorney-General's office in Los Angeles, to  accuse Raja of mismanaging funds. Later he would disclaim any part,  personally, in the ensuing lawsuits brought against Raja. In spite of  his past statements that it would be unthinkable for him to enter into  a lawsuit with Raja or to have anything to do with such matters, he  was the instigator of this first step. James Vigeveno was so disturbed  by these developments that a year and a half later he wrote a letter  trying to cast a little light °– and truth °– on the situation.  Ojai July 1969  TO FRIENDS OF MINE AND THOSE WHO ARE HURT:  Since 1927, now forty-two years ago, when I first met Krishnamurti,  [ have always been a great admirer and friend, and I have ever since  been deeply interested in his teachings. During these years I have  worked much for him, I have been a trustee and later Vice-President  of the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. until the end of 1966.  Rajagopal has worked for nearly fifty years for Krishnamurti's  teachings and has devoted his entire life to this work . . . Most .  efficiently, he has made of the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. an organi-R  zation which the world will be grateful to remember one day. '  But in 1960 things began to change . .. and I found myself in the  middle of a growing conflict between Krishnaji and Rajagopal . . .  298  
 
                   
A New Circle in the Shadow 
    In private talks with me Krishnaji started to criticize Rajagopal's  actions; he tried to influence me against him. Krishnaji's criticism  of Rajagopal became more insistent every year when I saw him  in Gstaad, and every year this matter was openly discussed at the  Saanen Gatherings . . . His attitude against Rajagopal became more 
    resentful, and he opposed him personally °– not his work. Krishnaji  has always admired this and has often told me: ?(r)Nobody could do  the work better than Rajagopal.' 
    Krishnamurti's tragic moment came in 1968, when during the  Saanen Gathering an official statement was read out which announced  his disassociation from the Krishnamurti Writings, Inc., and a denun- ciation of Rajagopal. With that you are all familiar. Much later I heard  that a few friends around Krishnaji had urged him not to make this  public announcement; but he had been adamant . . . 
    On October 31st 1968, Krishnaji called me over the telephone and  said to me: ?(r)I don't want to talk with Rajagopal alone. I want to meet  with the trustees of the Krishnamurti Writings, Rajagopal and you. If  this does not happen, I am out of it. If we don't meet before November  3rd, the lawyers will take charge . . . But under no circumstances will  I see Rajagopal alone. 
    ?(r)I am not threatening or forcing you. I am only telling you facts.  If there is no meeting as suggested, I will not see any of you again and  will not answer any of your letters. This is not a personal problem;  Krishnamurti Writings is a public affair. You are responsible. 
    ?(r)You are dealing with something sacred, and you are spitting on  it. Rajagopal is no longer the cock of the walk, the strong man. The  situation is grave, it is a sacred, holy matter . . . Don't you see the  gravity of this? He refuses a man like me offering my friendship!' 
    After this conversation I talked with Rajagopal. Rajagopal gave up  his insistence to speak with Krishnamurti alone, and agreed to send  the following telegram to Krishnamurti on November 2nd, 1968. 
    ?(r)Answering your wish to talk with KWinc. trustees, I can arrange  a meeting between you personally and the trustees at the KWinc.  office, Besant Road. Please advise date and time you desire after  your return from Claremont when more trustees will be available.  James Vigeveno' 
    On November 5th I received the following answer: ?(r)I regret very  much that Rajagopal and the trustees refused my request for a meeting  between all of us. I won't come to a meeting alone. The matter is now  out of my hands. Krishnamurti.' 
    Very disillusioned I wrote the following letter to Krishnaji: 
    299  
 
                   
 
    Dear Krishnaji:  The fact that Rajagopal gave up his strong demand to see you face  to face, was a great step towards understanding . . . This meeting  about Krishnamurti Writings matters cannot be held in the presence  of persons who know nothing or very little about forty-five years  of work and relationship between you and Rajagopal. 
    You cannot expect Rajagopal to attend a meeting with strangers  and prejudiced people, but you yourself insist on that point; and  because of that point alone it is you who are rejecting the friendly  hand offered to you. 
    You say you are ?(r)out of it'. But that is not so. Whether you  personally go to court or your group of friends on your behalf, the  result will be the same disaster. A lawsuit and a judgement will be  directed against you personally; and the press will be eager to seize  the story and dramatize it. You will be the principal figure in the  spotlight. This is precisely what Rajagopal is trying to prevent, so  that your life and your person will not be publicly discussed and  denounced and exposed. 
    Dear Krishnaji, I am writing this not to criticize but to ask you to see  what can happen, and look at it from the point of view of the facts. 
    There must be a way for two people °– him who has given the  teachings and him who has given his whole life to the teachings - to discuss and communicate about their problems, so that with love  and goodwill an understanding can come about.' 
    After having refused to meet personally with Rajagopal to discuss  their problem, Krishnamurti has spread the word that the money  given to Krishnamurti Wrtings, Inc. for him has not been made  available for his use. This 1s not true . . . all his expenses have  been readily met, and specially requested amounts for himself and  [his secretary] have always been sent to him by the Krishnamurti  Writings, Inc. 1n various instalments. A few months ago, however,  Krishnamurti suddenly refused the money, saying very curtly that  he would no longer accept it from [KWInc] as long as Rajagopal was  the head of it. In spite of this, Rajagopal had me send to Krishnaji  again the amount, hoping that, coming from me, he would accept  it . . . But again it was refused. 
    . . . One day, history will reveal everything; but the division in  Krishnamurti himself will cast a very dark shadow on all he has  said or written. Because the first thing the readers will say, is: ?(r)If  he cannot live it, who can?' 
    300  
 
                         A New Circle in the Shadow 
    .. . I'leave it to you to think and find out which of the two is  nearer to the teachings and to living them. Rajagopal is not defending  himself, out of love for Krishnamurti and the wish to protect him.  Remember a question so often asked of Krishnaji: ?(r)What do you do  when you are attacked??°¿ He answered: ?(r)If you defend yourself, then  the defender becomes the attacker.' 
    JAMES VIGEVENO 
    James Vigeveno's letter touched many and angered others. Beatrice  Wood replied to James after receiving her copy: 
    Aug 1st, 1969  Dear James,  It is wonderful someone, who knew, had facts, came out so clearly  to speak of the impasses between Rajagopal and Krishnaji. 
    I had tears as I read it. It has been obvious to me Krishnaji is not  living his own teaching, that he has been making war. I am glad you  not only brought that out, but also that Rajagopal with dignity has  not added to the aggression, but kept silent in his own defense. 
    Were it wise I wish your letter could be published for many to  read. From a standpoint of wisdom 1t might only add to the fuel.  For few of us can be objective, and in the mind of devotees a world  teacher can do no wrong. 
    Krishnaji has said he wants no followers, yet he encourages people  to follow him around. Anyone who thinks independently, for himself  must see the unloving attitude that Krishnaji is pursuing. 
    On account of my respect and affection for Rajagopal I am deeply  grateful you have written so impressively and justly your thoughts.  Affectionately, 
    - 
   BEATRICE 
    Among the devotees, there were many who took grave offence at  James's letter. Krishna pretended not to recognize Annie Vigeveno,  when a few years later she offered him a ride up the hill to the Oak  Grove. Old friends, who stood by Raja, were denounced as being part  of a Judas syndrome. It is indeed hard to see that parallel. No one had  acted against Krishna. 
    301  
 
                   
29 
    The Wheels of Justice 
    Once set in motion, the process of litigation moved slowly and inexo- rably towards a showdown. Raja offered terms which four years later  would be accepted. 
    Ermie died in November 1970, leaving Rosalind in the front line  alone now. There was no longer any close elder in her life to offer  the solace of greater wisdom and experience. For Rosalind it was like  losing a mother; Erma had cared for her since birth. 
    In one of her last lucid moments Ermie said to us, ?(r)I have studied  philosophy and the religions all my life and everything is still a great  question.' 
    I will never forget the look of childlike wonder in her beautiful  blue-green eyes as she said this, completely without fear, just a vital  curiosity still carrying her through her last moments. 
    It was in January 1971, when my mother became convinced that  there would be a trial and the privacy of her life would be invaded,  that she sat down one day and told me all the details of her relationship  with Krishna. She said she did not want me to hear it the first time  in a courtroom and if he himself had not brought about the present  situation she would never have told anyone. It was a relief to her when  I replied that ever since I could remember I had been aware of the close  relationship between her and Krinsh. 
    Rosalind then appealed to the attorneys on both sides, telling them  how disastrous a trial would be, most of all for Krishna, only hinting  at possible scandal. She was still not prepared to reveal publicly her  own relationship with Krishna; it would take yet another lawsuit to  wrench that from her. But her plea was disregarded. 
    In 1971 Krishna had returned to California, but not to Ojai, where he  was refusing to talk as long as Raja was involved with KWInc. I phoned  him in Malibu to plead once more that he try to end the hostilities. To  open the conversation I asked him if he knew that Ermie had died.  At first he acted as though he didn't know who Ermie was. When  I refreshed his memory, he sounded unmoved. (Erma, while never 
    302  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    uttering a word of criticism, had, with Louis, withdrawn from personal  and financial involvement with Krishna.) I heard a voice prompting him  in the background. 
    ?(r)Can't we carry on this conversation without the help of another  party?' I asked.  Krinsh denied that anyone was in the room. I was appalled by this  blatant deception. 
    ?(r)This whole matter is something private, as you well know, between  you and my father. It is something that should be settled in a closet, not  a courtroom.' 
    I then went too far, saying, ?(r)It seems to me it is a conflict of ego and  pride and surely you of all people should be able to deal with that.'  Krinsh was outraged. His voice changed completely from a formal  indifference to heated anger. [t became almost shrill.  ?(r)I have no ego!' he said. *Who do you think you are, to talk to me  like this?'  [ replied, ?(r)I am nobody.' Indeed I realized he did not know me. [  was a total stranger at that moment. 
    After this conversation which ended so badly, I did not see or talk  to him again for three years. It was the first time he had ever been  angry with me, although I had witnessed his anger towards others. |  discovered it was a very different experience to be his direct target. Over  the next few years | would meet a series of people who had suffered the  same fate, often with devastating results. Strangely enough I felt [ owed  to him my resilience and ability to cast off his anger without injury,  although I would continue to feel a great sadness for them all. 
    In December 1973 Jimmy and I went to India for three months. Our  daughter and son, Tinka and Robbie, now in college, came with us. On  an impulse [ wrote to Krishna telling him we would be in Bombay in  January and asking him to call our hotel there if he would like to sece  us. He called, and though his voice then sounded a bit remote, when  we drove up to the house he was standing outside watching for us,  apparently anxiously. He said he was afraid we might get lost. He  was as affectionate as ever, holding my face in his hands and gazing at  me for a long potent moment. There were several people at the table,  although his hostess was away in New Delhi. One of the other guests  had been most sweet and helpful to my mother when she had visited  India in 1956, and she at least asked after Rosalind, but during lunch  neither of my parents' names was mentioned once by Krinsh, nor was  Ojai. A curtain had fallen on that part of the world. Krinsh showed us  a model of his new school with which he was evidently very absorbed. 
    303      I left this luncheon feeling we had not really established any contact and  that my farewell dream of seven years before had been indeed the true  farewell. 
    On that trip we stayed for two weeks in the Theosophical headquarters  at Adyar as guests of the late President, John Coates. We met several  people who had been obliquely touched by the lawsuit between Krishna  and Raja. Krishna had objected to a contract Raja had made with Quest  books, a Theosophical publishing house, to publish Krishna's writings.  Krishna was supposedly still taking a stand of complete aloofness from  the Theosophical Society, although a very few years later he would  reverse this attitude. (First he was to refer to Raja as that ?(r)damned  Theosophist', in a rancorous realization that Raja had never resigned  from the society.) Mr Coates showed us the apartment that was still  kept for Krishrna in accordance with Mrs Besant's wishes. ?(r)We have  never locked him out as he claims,?°¿ Mr Coates told me. ?(r)And he now  claims your parents have locked him out from Arya Vihara.?°¿ ?(r)Then  Krinsh had not accepted after all,?°¿ I thought to myself, ?(r)when my  mother asked him to stay away from Ojai for those few years.?°¿ But  I said nothing. 
    We were staying in Leadbeater Chambers, the large three-storey buil- ding that my father and Rukmini's brother Yagna, had once scampered  around when it was being built. One morning during breakfast, a man  appeared on our veranda and introduced himself as the person involved  in arbitration of the Vasanta Vihar property across the river, now also  an object of litigation. He told me how he was living in it to keep up the  property until a settlement was reached. He claimed that Krishna had  harried the Theosophists about both of his Indian schools and property.  [ was sorry later that [ had not pursued a more detailed line of inquiry  instead of trying to end, rather than expand, that conversation. 
    Rosalind had decided to build a house on Happy Valley for her use  during her lifetime with funds from the sale of her Saro Vihara house.  Krishna must not have known of her plans, for he sent a verbal message  with a friend that Rosalind should vacate Arya Vihara as he now had a  use for it. His endless statements and letters designating Arya Vihara as  hers for her lifetime were not referred to and were probably forgotten  by both of them. 
    In December 1974 an out-of-court settlement was finally reached. 
    The parties in the Agreement [Krishnamurti Foundation of America,  Krishnamurti Foundation Trust Ltd, England, Krishnamurti and 
    304  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    the trustees of said organizations on the one hand, and K & R  Foundation, Krishnamurti Writings, Inc. of Ojai, and Rajagopal]  wish to make it clear to all those who are concerned with the  teachings of Krishnamurti that it is the intent of this agreement to  settle all-differences so that the work of Krishnamurti throughout  the world may proceed effectively. 
    . . the trustees of said organizations have entered into an Agree- ment settling and resolving all of the disputes and differences that  have existed between them for a number of years. All the parties have  agreed to withdraw the allegations that have been made against one  another and to dismiss all legal claims based on these allegations. 
    Raja had sought for the previous four years to protect Krishna from  the publicity that would ensue from a trial, even to the point of refusing  to consider his own defence. He hoped against hope that Krishna would  come to his senses and retract the absurd but terrible and imprisonable  charges he had made against Raja. In the settlement, Raja offered the  material properties that he had offered and that had been rejected four  years ago; now they were accepted. While Rosalind's interventions may  have caused some confusion for Raja, they may well also have convinced 
    Krishna's advisers that it would be detrimental in the extreme to drag  him into the courts.  Peace was to be short-lived, in spite of the judge's orders that no 
    actions between these parties ever be resumed. Unfortunately the judge  died, which was perhaps not legally relevant, but in any case alleged  grounds for another action against Raja were gathered. Raja had already  given up publication rights to everything after 1967, plus the KWinc land  and almost all the funds, except what had been agreed in the settlement  that he could keep for work on the compilation of a thirty-volume  library edition of Krishna's complete works up to 1967 which Harper's  had agreed to publish. This contract would extend way beyond his own  lifetime for almost thirty years and after his death would pass to the  Krishnamurti Foundation. Raja had sought to safeguard this project in  every way he could and the publisher told me, as I drove him back  to the airport after making this agreement with my father, that any  publishing house would snap up the contract Raja had offered, even  with the possibility of being embroiled in a lawsuit. 
    Raja's oldest friend, Rukmini Arundale, was among those still loyal  to him. There had always been a certain rivalry with her on Krishna's  part. He had been scornful of her role as the world mother (although  she had not sought to be put in that position). After her husband, 
    305  
 
                   
 
    George Arundale, died, Rukmini's brother Sri Ram had succeeded him  as President of the Theosophical Society and, after him, John Coates.  In 1980, there was another election in the society and Rukmini was  one of the candidates for the presidency. She lost to her niece, Radha  Burnier. Radha had for many years been a close friend of Krishna and  his letters to Rosalind had mentioned her frequent walks with him on  the beach whenever he was in Madras. Rukmini wrote to Beatrice Wood  in August 1980 about this situation, expressing her surprise that Krishna  had taken part in the campaign by saying that if Radha Burnier became  President he would once more walk on Theosophical land at Adyar. 
    It would appear that for Krishna his life was closing full circle. He  had deeply resented the snub he felt he had reccived from the society.  His hopes as a youth to take hold of it and reform it had ended in his  splitting off from it but, as his letters to Rosalind indicate, he could  never walk within sight of Adyar without feeling bitter nostalgia at his  self-imposed exile. One wonders how much of his thought and inner  striving had been aimed at this final triumphant re-instatement. 
    He had also tried to stake a claim to the Happy Valley Land. The  advances on his behalf had been welcomed but only if he would accept  the simple few conditions which were part of the general policy of the  Happy Valley Foundation towards any groups that might use the land;  that there should be no cults based on a personality, and there must be  a sharing of certain common facilities like the library. After receiving  these terms of lease from the Happy Valley Foundation, nothing more 
    was heard.  Once more Krishna turned his attack on Raja. Beatrice Wood expressed  her feelings about the new action: 
    Feb 22, 1981  [ am writing these notes hoping to clarify my thinking. Several  weeks ago I heard . . . another lawsuit was being started over  Rajagopal. This puzzled me because I understood that when the  lawsuit of 1974 was terminated that it was agreed there would be  no further harassment. 
    [K] wants all [Rajagopal's] papers, not only those which profes- sionally have to do with activities around Krishnamurti, which are  available for anyone to see, but also his private papers, which as an  individual he has a right to keep. The idea being that as a ?(r)secretary',  an employee, he is keeping back papers that belong to the ?(r)Boss'.  Since Rajagopal is a man of singular integrity and accuracy, besides  [being] knowledgeable about the law, I am doubtful that he would  306  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    withhold papers that he should not. I have known him as being  extraordinarily strict about correctness. 
    For forty years he has given up his life to helping, never as a  secretary but as a friend, and acting without salary. This he told  me himself. Dr Besant and Krishnamurti asked him to care for the  business side, the publishing of books, arrangement of lectures, and  he gave up a possibly brilliant career of his own to devote himself  to the teachings. Until recent years Krishnamurti never wanted to  have anything to do with financial nor business side of his work, and  until the break came between them, he completely trusted Rajagopal's  judgement and honesty, asserting he could not go on without his  assistance. 
    Much as [ admire the teachings of Krishnamurti, which have had  great meaning for me over the years, it bothers me that he [is]  acting in a vindictive manner, even to the extent of willingness to  have Rajagopal put in jail. This is hard for me to understand, as  for many years Krishnamurti lived as one family with Rajagopal  and Rosalind and he lovingly helped with the bringing up of their  daughter, Radha. It is sad and strange therefore that he is willing to  have Rajagopal thus persecuted. 
    After turning from everything theosophical he now wants a school  in Adyar for the training of teachers. What does this mean? 
    Various rumors continue to go around, and one is that Krishnamurti  is supposed to have said that he is even greater than Buddha or the  Christ °– Christ forgave his enemies. This can be impressive to  followers who do not know the whole truth, or the past. The  present is the child of the past, 
    -BEATO  When Jimmy and I returned to India in the autumn of 1981, we knew  that a new lawsuit was in the offing. 
    We stopped on the way to spend a few days with Vanda Scaravelli  in Fiesole and here for the first time she let us read a description of  her experience with Krishna's ?(r)process'. This had occurred in 1961, at  a time when she admitted she was disenchanted with his behaviour,  particularly toward my father. Vanda remembered Raja had asked her  to take care of Krishna in Europe (not in a business sense), as he was  withdrawing. Vanda had taken this as a binding commitment, though  she herself would withdraw more and more from his new circle.  Then she witnessed the ?(r)process'. Her experience, though recorded  with utmost sincerity and conviction on her part, struck us as another 
    307  
 
                   
 
    probable performance by Krishna. In this as in the others, he had  attempted to attach to himself the devotion of a particular woman  who was important to him at the moment. Yet Vanda still had her  own objectivity about him and was one of the few who had managed  to remain friends with both Krishna and my father. 
    ?°„You will be in India when Krishnaji is there. Do see him. Talk to  him and tell him to stop this lawsuit. He is like a child,?°¿ she said. ?(r)He  can be very naughty but he does not know what he is doing and now  he wants to be grown-up and take charge but he will make a mess.' 
    We agreed with her in part, but felt things had gone far beyond the  pranks of a naughty child. I wasn't sure at that moment that I wanted  to talk to him. I told Vanda I would decide only when we got to India.  Thinking 1t over during the long flight I felt there was nothing to lose  in trying once more to reach him and that it would be much easier to  see him in India than in Ojai. 
    On arrival in Delhi I obtained the phone number of his hostess, Pupul  Jayakar, from a mutual friend. She received my call warmly and went  to ask Krinsh if he would like to see us. We were invited to lunch the  following afternoon. 
    Jimmy and I were shown into a large light room, simply and tastefully  furnished with, here and there, Indian art objects of great beauty. In a  moment Krinsh walked in, dressed in Indian clothes. He was more frail  than in 1974, the last time I had seen him. A large bald spot on top of  his head was covered by long hair swept forward in what I thought  was a most peculiar styling. He had always been vain yet it surprised  me that baldness should matter that much to him now. Far worse was  an obvious problem with his teeth or gums, which affected his speech.  The trembling of his hands was not new but was more pronounced.  There were tears in his eyes as he hugged me then stood back to look and  asked, ?(r)Are you still Kittums?' to which I answered quite insdnctively,  ?(r)Are you still Krinsh?'?°¿ He seemed to get the point, gave a half smile  and we sat down, all three together, after he had also warmly greeted  Jimmy. He talked of this and that, nothing personal, until we were  called to the dining-room. Here, seated on Krinsh's right at a round  table, there began what I can only describe as his game of ostensible  intimacy with his favourite of the moment. As a very small child I had  innocently monopolized that position, but had sometimes witnessed it  in his interaction with others. Now I found myself once again in that  privileged place. It consisted of a sharing of morsels of food from plate  to plate, being very sure I was well provided for, an occasional squeeze  of knee or elbow to show that his attention was really inwardly with 
    308  
 
                   
The Wheels of Justice 
    me. In spite of all this the conversation kept flowing smoothly from  inventions to politics, thanks mostly to his efforts. Seated at the table,  much to the satisfaction ofa very old curiosity on my part was Nandini,  whose famed beauty still lingered in spite of her white hair and gracefully  ageing face. At one point, perhaps for my benefit, to show off his former  Californian style of informality, or for her benefit to show that he was not  neglecting her, Krinsh picked up a banana and tossed it across the table  to her. This reminded me of a long ago meal at Arya Vihara, where  my mother had tossed a carrot down the whole length of the table to  Aldous. ?(r)Here, Aldous, have a carrot!?°¿ Just as Krinsh now said, ?(r)Here,  Nandini, have a bananal' 
    As lunch was drawing to a close I said softly to Krinsh that I would  very much like to have just five minutes alone with him. Now he  demurred and said he must rest because he was to see Indira Gandhi  that afternoon. ?(r)Just five minutes, Krinsh,' I persisted, feeling suddenly  that this was perhaps my only chance and feeling too so much of my  old love for him and his for me, and that if ever one person could reach  another surely it would be in such a state. 
    I wasted no time launching into the subject. I told him if he was  planning to continue with another lawsuit, I thought it was, for his  sake above all, a very bad idea ~ that in the end he would destroy  everything he had tried to create. His schools, his teachings would  all suffer and he would be remembered only for his lawsuits against  a man who had given his life to helping him. 
    I said, even granted that he was right on all the issues, which I did  not grant, but even if°– was what he was doing still worth it? For the  sake of what? 
    ?(r)Kittums . . .?°¿ Again he held my knee, closed his eyes as though  searching for the right answers but none came, only questions.  ?(r)Do you not think I spend all my time thinking about this? Do you  think I want it?' 
    ?(r)Then why?' 
    Still no real answers came. 
    ?(r)What has my father done to you? Have you any idea what the feelings  are in Ojai, how people talk about him and my mother?'  At mention of her he shook me as if to stop my words.  ?(r)Don't please . . .'  ?(r)When Daddy fell over a wire walking his dog someone close to you 
    said, ?°„Too bad he didn't break his neck?°¿, and someone else said very 
    much the same thing when my mother fell, and when poor Byron 
    Casselberry had a stroke, they said it was because he had remained 
    309  
 
                   
 
    loyal to Raja. They are saying these things because of you. They think  it is what you want. You have spawned this attitude.' 
    ?(r)Rajagopal has been impossible about money, if you only knew . . . 
    ?(r)Please tell me.' 
    With this he repeated the story I had heard in Gstaad seventeen years  before. 
    ?(r)Can't you come up with a new complaint in all these years? You told  me that in Gstaad and then showed me all those travellers' cheques he  had sent you.' 
    ?(r)Please let's not talk about this; it is pointless.'  ?(r)What else has he done, then? Do you mind him publishing the series  with Harper?'  ?(r)No, no, that's all right. Let him do that. But he must return the  archives where they belong so you and all of us can see them.'  ?(r)He wants to give them to the Huntington Library. Everyone could  see them there. Do you object to that?' 
    ?(r)They must be where they belong,' he reiterated. 
    ?(r)Is that all? Is that what the whole thing is about?' 
    ?(r)Yes. I could stop this lawsuit tomorrow if| wanted to.' 
    ?(r)Why don't you? Why don't you meet with him alone and stop it?  But you cannot expect him to meet with all those people. He has been  humiliated too often. If you don't want to be alone with him, I will offer  to sit and listen and not say anything, if you feel you need a witness, or  just to keep peace.' 
    He promised he would do this. Suddenly there was a new look in  his face, purposeful, and I had hope. 
    ?(r)Krinsh, I would love to see you in California, and you are always  welcome to stay with us. But please call me. I cannot call you and go  through those people around you. I don't want to be in that position.' 
    ?(r)T understand,' he said. ?(r)I promise I'll call you when I get to Ojat.' 
    He looked washed out though, and Nandini appeared at the doorway. 
    She had ordered a taxi for us. We were definitely being ushered out. He 
    hugged me hard and said, ?(r)Don't talk for a moment °– just be quiet,?°¿ and 
    then he left the room. 
    Pupul had disappeared and as we said goodbye to Nandini, who 
    seemed very shy and had not spoken a word all through lunch, 
    remarked, ?(r)T always heard you were perfectly beautiful and you are.?°¿ She 
    looked astonished and followed us out to the taxi with a wide smile. 
    When Krinsh returned to Ojai the following spring he kept his promise  and phoned to tell me that he would attend a meeting with my father, 
    310  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    = 
   =R~ 
    but he did not specify that it would be a private one, and consequently I  had little hope that anything good would come of it. He promised to let  me know the outcome. In fact he did not arrange the meeting at all, but  Annie Vigeveno had suggested that there be a meeting in her house. As  I would have predicted, Raja did not show up. Krishna and his trustees  had walked into Annie's house, and Krishna had immediately counted  the chairs before sitting down, then asked, ?(r)Where is Rajagopal to sit?'  Annie replied that he had just called to say he was not coming, with  which Krishna left in a fury. 
    Krinsh called me two days later and this is the conversation, which  [ typed from memory immediately after. 
    K I am calling you because I said I would call Wednesday night  and tell you what happened at the meeting. We all went to  Mrs Vigeveno's house Monday morning as arranged. When we  entered the room [ counted the chairs and asked right off where  will Rajagopal sit? Mrs Vigeveno said, ?(r)I will explain; please sit  down.' I sat and she said that Rajagopal was not coming. There  was no apology or explanation. I rose instantly and said there  was nothing to discuss without him there and walked out. Mrs  Vigeveno said that Rajagopal would like to talk with me alone  and I told her that if that was the case he could telephone me  directly and arrange it. He has not done so. I am telling you  this, Kittums, exactly as it happened, without exaggeration. I  have tried for ten years to settle this in every way I could, have  sent letters . . .  Have you ever talked to him alone?  Yes. I went to his house and he taped the whole conversation.  Later I caught Mrs Porter checking the tape so [ know. [This took  place some years earlier.] People just do not do these things. [tisn't  done. It's not decent behaviour. Either Rajagopal is completely  mad or dishonest or he is playing games. He doesn't want this  settled.  I know he is none of those things. It's terrible to say things  like that.  I''m not sure. But I have done what I could, I will not go_there  again. Every time we have arranged a meeting he makes an excuse  the last minute not to come.  [ happen to know he really was ill this time.  So am I!' I got out of bed to come. I don't believe him.  Would you be willing to see him alone if he calls you? 
    n  
 
                   
 
    . 
   ARAEFRER 
   TR 
    I have a definite condition otherwise I refuse.  What is it?  The archives must be returned to the place they belong, which  was agreed on, and where we can all freely see them.  Is that the only issue, the only condition?  Yes.  Well I'm sorry it ended like this. It's very sad.  There is nothing more I can do; I have tried everything.  [ don't know what to say.  There is nothing you can say. I am not asking you to tell Rajagopal  anything.  No, I don't want to get in that position. When are you going  to New York?  Next week.  How long will you be gone?  About ten days.  We are going to Wrightwood tomorrow.  There is snow there. It will be beautiful.  Yes, would you like to come?  (laughs) T can't go anywhere. I am in bed.  Well, perhaps when you get back. I'll try to call you before  you go. Is there a phone number where I can reach you in the  evening?  I am staying in Mrs °–'s house and this is her private number.  Nobody can have it. She has her own reasons. 
    R All right, I'll call you during office hours. Thank you for telling  me all this.  K I did it because you asked me and I said I would. 
    Krinsh was, in fact, staying in the very same Pine Cottage where my  grandmother Sophia had once stayed, where my mother had cared for  Nitya and then cared for Krinsh through the first ?(r)process'. It had been  Krinsh's home for the past sixty years. From what I had heard, it had  now been transformed beyond recognition into a luxurious domicile  with tiled floors and modern kitchen. 
    There were several points in this last conversation I would ever have  with Krinsh that might have been argued, but I did not feel it would  be of any help. First, he had ignored the most important part of my  plea and that was to see Raja alone. He had not made any effort to do  so, although that had been a promise. Waiting for Raja to call him was  not the same thing. Raja had been humiliated once too often by meeting 
    ~ A 
    312  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    Krishna in the presence of his trustees. One time when they had all come  to inspect the archives, as was their right under the settlement, Raja had  held out his hand to Krishna and asked that they forgive and be friendly  and Krishna had replied, ?°„You do penance first before you ask for my  friendship,?°¿ and, snubbing the proffered hand, had marched out with  his group behind him. This story will be unbelievable to many, but  luckily Raja had witnesses of his own, and I have no difficulty after my  conversations with Krishna and hearing the hatred in his voice when  he spoke Raja's name in believing it. 
    If, as Krishna repeatedly claimed, he wanted the archives available for  anyone, why had he interfered with them being given to the Huntington  Library? Some had already been sent, but the charges in the latest lawsuit  had quite naturally made the Huntington wary of accepting them. It was  clear that Krishna really wanted the power to destroy those papers he  thought would be damaging to his image. 
    Rosalind decided to make one final effort. She still dreaded the thought  of a trial and of having her whole life laid bare, and she had known all  along that a trial would mean no less. 
    On 8 June 1983 she wrote a complete and detailed account of her  relationship with Krishna, including the abortions, the miscarriage and  his behaviour over the affair in India. She sent it in a sealed envelope  to Vanda, in Gstaad asking her to please have Krishna open and read  it to himself, in Vanda's presence, without letting anyone see it and  tear it up immediately. She hoped that if he read, precisely spelled  out, what would become public knowledge in a trial he might come  to his senses. 
    Vanda replied on 6 July from Gstaad: 
    Dear Rosalind, 
    This morning I handed your letter to K. He said ?(r)it was too long' 
    but read it almost all. Then he handed it to Mrs°– saying that there 
    were things concerning the foundation that she should know. 
    In the afternoon he tore it in front of me. 
    On 22 December 1983, I was standing in my husband's study when  a stranger rapped on the door and thrust an envelope in my hand. It  was a subpoena from Krinsh's attorneys ordering me to appear for a  deposition and to bring any records or memos of phone conversations  between Krishnamurti and me concerning my father. This, as nothing  else had done, drove home to me how unprivate our lives had now  become, how we had been thrust into an impersonal arena. It had been 
    313  
 
                   
 
   
    a year and a half since my last phone conversation with Krinsh. [ knew  about the letter my mother had sent to him but there had been no reply  to that. - 
   If Krishna tried to deny his nearly thirty-year affair with Rosalind  and his responsibility in her pregnancies, or if he tried to say that she  had seduced him with Raja's condonation and it had all been over long  ago, his letters to my mother over a span of twenty-five vears would  emphatically disprove such a claim. But it probably did not occur to  Krishna that Rosalind had kept these letters. She and I were the only  ones who had read them at that point. 
    In the autumn of 1983 the lawsuit against Raja was suddenly with- drawn, but with the right reserved to open another case in the future. 
    Rosalind believed that her letter ultimately had the effect of making  Krishna's side drop their lawsuit. She knew that he had allowed another  party to read the letter and knew that it might even have been copied to  be misused at a later time. She also knew that the threat ofa trial, where  lies and truth about her whole life, as well as Krishna's and Raja's, would  be spewed forth in a courtroom. had only temporarily been lifted. She  was thus moved to allow me to use her memory and her letters in this  book. She felt that since Krishna had set in motion the events that had  led to the present impasse, the whole truth must now come out. It was  a painful and terrible decision for her to make and one that involved  the intrinsically self-sacrificing nature that those close to her know so  well. She was fully aware of what this public knowledge could do to  her final vears. She had tried in her heart never to take sides between  Krishna and Raja, but she could not repress her sense of justice. That  doing so might hurt her as well as Krishna was not as important a  consideration as the failure to clear Raja publicly of the terrible charges  Krishna had made against him. 
    Rosalind had tried to cut herself free from her relationships with both  Raja and Krishna and to go her own way. Her life with them seemed  now like another life of another person. But she had been forced to  come back and clarify feelings and actions of the past. She had finally  freed herself from anger and from hurt. The past was almost buried  and now she wanted peace; but she wanted truth more. 
    Raja, at last worn down by fifteen years of harassment and strongly 
    backed by his trustees, filed a suit against Krishna and his associates, 
    claiming slander and subjection to two previous ill-founded lawsuits, 
    plus many other counts. 
    [ was convinced by my last two conversations with Krishna, the one 
    in Delhi and the one over the phone, that the basis of all Krishna's 
    314  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    actions against Raja was his fear of what the archives contained, of what  would happen to his public image if letters and statements in his own  handwriting should ever come to light. He wished to acquire control  over these archives by whatever means necessary. It seems not to have  occurred to him that Raja's whole life had been given to protecting him,  that the last thing he would ever have intended was to hurt Krishna in  any way. It had taken Raja nearly twenty years of enduring outrageous  charges to move to protect himself against Krishna. Up to the threshold  of this last trial, he was still trying to get a settlement. 
    When I learned the terms of the proposed settlement, I felt my father  would be accepting peace at a high price. He felt tired and old and did  not want a trial which, if he had won, would have forced Krishna and his  followers to retract all the charges against him and to promise never to  re-open the battle, just what the judge had ordered in the first settlement  of 1974, It would also have exposed all the details of Krishna's life. I  wondered if my father still found it impossible to expose Krishna even  if it were the only way to save himself. I realized he was not a fighter  or a destroyer but in the true Hindu sense, a Vaishnavite, belonging  in nature to Vishnu the preserver, for whom righteousness and dharma  are all important. He was being pushed to go against the core of his  nature and perhaps in the end would refuse. 
    There are those who might also see Krishna, with his multi-aspects,  in Hindu terms, as a Shaivite: Shiva Nataraj, Lord of the Dance as  Creator, also, Shiva the Destroyer. In tantric tradition it is realistic  and even good that there be these different aspects. It is the reality  of the universe. Sexuality and even lust in the gods and in yogis is a  transitignal part of this reality, however difficult it may be for the more  puritanical among us to accept. Krishna, however, refused to associate  himself with any of these traditions. He preferred to see himself as a  man who successfully straddled or side-stepped the culture heritages of  East and West. 
    In Western terms, as an alternative to the theory of the vehicle or  of multiple personalities, one could still say that Krishna was a person  of strongly differing aspects. The question is, to what degree was he  conscious of these differences? 
    Was the claimed loss of memory of his early years, as well as his claim  to be unconditioned, spontaneous or a deliberate effort on his part to  eliminate a burdensome past? The re-writing of one's personal history is  not uncommon among those who need a certain public image. Krishna  was a poor, undernourished child, but not, as some have suggested,  retarded. He only appeared to be. He had, in fact, an exceptional mind 
    315  
 
                   
 
    and the sort of mental energy which is the key to productive genius. He  learned early that to appear slightly moronic or helpless was a protection;  first, from abusive treatment and, later, from other people's expectations  which he had no wish to fulfil. Leadbeater had the acumen to perceive a  spark in him and to nurture it. Krishna received intensive training that  started under his own family, a training that would serve him well  throughout his life. His self-discipline in adhering to a persistent regime  of physical fitness, extended his probable life expectancy by about fifty  years. 
    As for the ?(r)process', personal interpretations and assumptions will  provide a variety of conclusions. Hindu culture is steeped with the  ideal of Moksha, generally meaning the transcendence of difference  between subject and object, or as Krishna expressed it, between the  thinker and the thought. And this, according to some definitions, is a  more permanent state than samadhi. 
    Krishna's ?(r)process', as Leadbeater noted, does not clearly fit this  concept. But there is no doubt that it proved highly successful in  gaining the devotion and love of a series of women. Even without  the ?(r)process', he knew how to gain the sympathy and the protection of  the right people, from Mrs Besant to Raja and Rosalind and those who  succeeded them. He could survive without deep emotional attachments  (detached love is an intrinsic part of his philosophy), but he needed  affection on a certain level and for this could easily substitute one  person for another. There had to be someone (a woman) he could  feel close to, speak to, or write to daily. 
    His love for Rosalind was the longest and perhaps deepest of his  life. It stemmed from the early, happy years at Ojai with Nitya. For  years Rosalind provided for his every emotional need. She nurtured,  healed and loved him, yet refused to see him as an exalted person. This  anchored and sustained the normal side of him ~ the side he needed  to experience life as most people do, in order to talk about it. He  established a true family existence with my mother and me, but he  felt free to walk away when he chose. We were not his responsibility,  an obligation which he was probably incapable of accepting. Neither  did he feel guilt. To feel this one must first feel responsible. He often  showed concern but that is not the same. Responsibility involves an  ongoing and sometimes long-range commitment. Concern can be as  incidental and fleeting as a moment. Therefore he enjoyed the best sides  of ordinary human existence while elevating himself to a philosophical  freedom from what he saw as the less desirable. 
    He inspired others to live spontaneously, openly, keeping alert but 
    316  
 
                         The Wheels of Justice 
    not judging, thus obviating the necessity of ambitious choice. But he  was capable of making and enacting long-range plans. Throughout his  life, he blazed his way to definite goals; he acquired houses and land for  schools. He formed new circles to replace the old, without interrupting  or hampering the course of his life. 
    Fear was central to much of his teachings, as it was central to him.  It drove him to the childish solution of lying rather than confronting  a difficult issue. Sometimes his lies were transparent and without guile,  sometimes they were accompanied by the self-delusion that makes a lie  believable. What made both Raja and Rosalind a threat was that they  knew he lied. He had admitted this to them both. With a long-range  view, he proceeded to discredit Raja in order to remove him from his  life. For a while he thought he could control Rosalind, that she would  stand by him through anything. He did not really turn against her until  she came to Raja's defence in the first lawsuit. Others had been aware of  his deceptions but had chosen to overlook them. Most people around  Krishna were devotee types, no matter what they or he protested to  the contrary. Hence they were willing, in fact compelled, to believe  anything he said or did. Some would even interpret his hurtful actions  as an intentional lesson for their welfare. 
    Krishna possessed almost all the qualities that make a person attractive  (to both sexes and also children and animals). Outwardly, when he was  younger, he was beautiful, charming, gentle, physically courageous and  compassionate. He could focus intensely on a particular person and make  that person feel he was the most important thing in Krishna's life at  that moment. He could be convincing, privately and publicly, that he  wanted to help, to alleviate suffering, to heal, to show individuals and  mankind at large a condition of freedom. In later years he sometimes  was negative, cantankerous and critical, but often the former qualities  prevailed. 
    He had a natural gift for language, especially poetry, and had distilled  with verbal brilliance the essence of wisdom, handed him by his early  teachers. In his early manhood, he was a forerunner in expressing the  type of iconoclasm that would bring immediate fame to cult figures  fifty years later. 
    317  
 
                   
30 
    Ashes to Ashes 
    In the summer of 1985, the mountains of Ojai were swept by a wildfire  that charred the whole north-western range. Under orders of the fire  department my mother piled her dog, Beato and Beato's three dogs  and a cat, into her car at midnight and drove to the Ojai Valley Inn.  They had hours of delay on the road with hot ash falling around them,  the temperatures in the high nineties and the dogs very upset. The inn  provided for them, animals and all, along with dozens of other refugees.  Knowing my mother was safe, we tried to evacuate my father, whose  house was only a few blocks from the fire but he refused to leave until  ordered by the police. The fire turned just then and backed over itself,  diminishing its fury. 
    A month later we drove into the Los Padres National forest to see  the last wild Californian condors. 
    Fog covered the hills, but under that shroud was nothing but grey  and white ash where once the white sage and black sage, sumac and  manzanita had flourished. Now stark charcoal stumps gave cover to an  occasional rabbit. 
    Less than half of last year's population of condors remained in the wild.  Above a valley near Mount Pinos they soared, looking for the carcasses  collected off the highway by those few people who still struggled to  allow the great birds their last days of freedom. 
    They came that day; first as black specks into the range of our  binoculars, then soaring up over the rim of the nearest hill, white  wing patches, head cocked at an angle watching against the odds for  a morsel lying amidst the dry grass. 
    Species disappear from the earth every day, never to return, but the 
    sheer size of these birds makes their disappearance more terrible. We 
    felt this tragic finality as we drove back towards Ojai, descending now 
    in full sunlight which revealed the horrors of the fire, no longer veiled 
    by fog. The inevitability of change, the rightness of it, is one thing to 
    accept rationally but days like this test the depth of one's acceptance. 
    Against this stark landscape there suddenly flooded memories of Ojai 
    318  
 
                   
Ashes to Ashes 
    in my childhood: playing in the orange orchards of Arya Vihara, Krinsh  waiting for me to get off the school bus, hiding out of sight behind the  rock wall. I thought of the care with which he taught me the small but  important details of life: tying one's shoes properly, polishing them,  brushing the dog. When such happy memories force themselves into  the present it 1s hard to understand how so much could have gone so  wrong. 
    The settlement terms were still being disputed. Finally, that winter  Raja accepted that there was no hope of his own peace with Krishna.  He filed for a jury trial. A court date was set for the following summer  of 1986. I knew I would be a witness at this trial and would return for  it in the spring, after another trip to India. 
    In January I drove to Ojai to say goodbye to my father, noticing  now small sprigs of green prodding their way through the carpet of  grey ash. There was still the threat of mudslides and floods if the rains  were not moderate that winter. 
    I heard that Krinsh had just returned to Ojai and that he was ill, but  no one I knew had any details. I had an impulse to try to see him, but  realized it would not be likely that on the spur of the moment I would  be allowed to do so and I abandoned the idea and left for India. 
    Beyond Madanapalle we followed the road still further from our course  toward the Rishi Valley School. Krinsh had been there only a few weeks  before. My mother had been there with him thirty years ago and had  walked with him along the stream, seen the great ancient boulders and  talked to his young people. I wanted to see for myself the place I had  always heard was one of the loveliest spots in India. 
    ?°„Krishnaji is very ill, they say he has cancer.' I could not believe these  words, spoken by the headmistress who had welcomed us, without  having any idea who we were. Perhaps it would have made no difference  one way or the other if she had known I was Rajagopal's daughter. Her  words stunned me. Cancer was the last thing I would have thought  Krinsh would succumb to °– even at ninety-two. 
    I left Rishi Valley with my thoughts a bleak veil against the gentle  verdant landscape. It was getting late and we had many miles to cover  before we reached the sea south of Madras, where we planned to spend  the night. 
    The next day we returned to Adyar after a ten-year absence. Nothing  much had changed. There were more graffiti; the guards at the gates,  posted to keep out troublemakers and beggars, were beggars themselves  asking for a small handout to buy milk for a new baby. There was a 
    319  
 
                   
 
    thinning of the sanctuary walls, a creeping encroachment of the real  world. 
    We had come to see Rukmini. On the phone the day before she had  said, ?(r)Please come quickly. I have something to tell you.' I did not  know whether the faintness of voice was due to weakness or a poor  connection. As soon as I saw her I knew. We found her sitting in a  chair in the living-room, eating her lunch. Her white hair was hanging  loose and she looked very ill. 
    ?(r)But she is getting better,?°¿ we were told by her older sister Shivakamu.  These two sisters are my father's oldest friends, I thought, since he was  here at Adyar as a boy of thirteen. 
    Rukmini drew me close and said, ?°„You must give your father a  message for me. I am too weak to telephone him.?°¿ Her face was drawn  with illness but her eyes, still beautiful, looked at me intently. 
    ?(r)Of course I will,?°¿ I promised. 
    ?(r)A friend of Krishna's °– a close friend here in India, has told him  he must make his peace with Rajagopal. Krishna promised him that  he would go back and do that. He is very ill you know. He will die  soon. He knows that. He even came to see me after forty years of  estrangement. We had a very friendly meeting. And he stood before  the portrait of Leadbeater and said ?°„?(r)pax?°¿. He has made his peace with  all of us here at Adyar and even wanted to give the Rajghat school  back to the Theosophists. He said it came from them and should go  back to them. He asked my nephew to run it, but he knows nothing  about running a school.' 
    She paused. This long rush of words had tired her and drawn the feeble  breath from her faltering lungs. But she forced herself to finish. 
    ?(r)If Krishna approached your father, would Raja be receptive? Could  you ask him to be receptive? I think it may be a very propitious time  for a reconciliation.' 
    ?(r)I am sure he would be receptive, but I think it unlikely Krishna will  approach him. However, I shall call him tonight from the hotel and  tell him what you have said.' I hugged her and told her I loved her and  how much her friendship meant to my father. 
    ?(r)When you get well enough to travel again, come to California,  Rukmini. I will take good care of you.'  I put my arms around her again and we both cried a little. ?(r)T'll call  you tomorrow and tell you what Daddy said.?°¿ I promised. 
    Unexpectedly I got an excellent connection from Madras to Ojai  with only a few minutes wait. I told my father every word of my  conversation with Rukmini. ?°„Thank her for me and give her my love,' 
    320  
 
                         Ashes to Ashes 
    he said. ?(r)It is a very nice thought but it will never happen. Don't have 
    false hopes.' 
    ?(r)But if Daddy, that's all, will you see him if he calls you?' 
    ?(r)Of course, but he will never do that.' 
    ?(r)Nevertheless, please do something for me,' 1 added, ?(r)if you have  any contact with Krinsh at all, please tell him I love him and would  like to be with him now. Do you know how ill he is?' 
    ?(r)I know nothing,?°¿ my father replied. ?(r)There are all sorts of rumours,  that's all.?°¿ I repeated his words to Rukmini the next day and we left  Madras for a long drive up the east coast of India. 
    On 22 February I read in the Calcutta Telegraph that Krinsh had died  five days before, 17 February (on Leadbeater's birthday.) He had said a  few months earlier that he knew the exact day on which he would die  but, supposedly, he had not shared this knowledge with anyone. 
    I had not expected his death to be such a shock. And the wave of  grief that came after, was the grief for a lost parent. I had never realized  how deeply I thought of him as that, though he had sometimes told  me he felt [ was his child. The obituary was written by Pupul Jayakar,  who had been with him at Ojai a few weeks before his death. He had  reiterated to her his hope that the teachings would not be distorted and  that people would keep the teachings and forget the teacher. 
    -Two days later, in New Delhi, I read that Rukmini had died. Exactly  one week after Krinsh.  As my father had expected, Krishna had made no attempt to get in  touch with him. Perhaps he had been too ill to try or perhaps those  close to him had discouraged the idea. 
    Krishna's death did not bring peace to Raja nor a resolution of the strife  that had been between them for twenty years. Until the eve of the court  trial Raja sought a settlement and finally the trustees of the Krishnamurti  Foundation signed a twenty-five page document designed to ?(r)ensure the  resolution of any and all disputes, past, present and future.' 
    The attorney's press release stated that: 
    the Krishnamurti Parties admit with respect to the prior lawsuits 
    that the Rajagopal Parties ?(r)have done nothing wrong, and have not 
    committed any acts which might be the basis for civil or criminal 
    charges or complaints'. 
    The Krishnamurti Parties further acknowledge that the documents 
    they sought to recover from the Rajagopal Parties in the prior lawsuits 
    are, in fact, Rajagopal's documents and may be kept by Rajagopal. 
    321  
 
                   
 
    The K&R Foundation which Raja had formed was turned over ?(r)as 1?®¨'  to the Krishnamurti Foundation and the latter agreed in the settlement to  ?(r)Indemnify the Rajagopal Parties . . . and hold them harmless against  any claims, complaints, causes of action, lawsuits . . . or allegations of  wrongdoing made by . . . any beneficiary of or successor in interest to  Krishnamurti.. 
    In other words, Raja had not only been cleared of any wrongdoing,  he had been judged correct in his claim to his collection of papers.  Above all, his past adversaries now had agreed that they must protect  all his life's work from a potential future attack by other parties. That  would have been a bitter pill for Krishna to swallow, one which he  had fortuitously escaped. 
    Whether or not such a settlement would have been possible during  Krishna's lifetime is a moot point. It is certain he would not have fared  well on the witness stand. Rosalind was spared the pain of such an  appearance also, although she was prepared to go through with it.  Sixteen years of litigation and three separate lawsuits all dropped at  the final hour, hundreds of thousands of dollars that might have been  spent on schools or publications, add up to a chronicle of waste. 
    The settlement imposed an uneasy peace among those left to live under  it but it did nothing to explain the causes of disharmony, the secret life  between my mother and Krinsh, the misunderstood behaviour of my  father toward Krinsh, the deceptions that had tried to the fullest his  willingness to forgive. 
    The pepper tree where Krishna had sat one summer evening in 1922  was still alive. It had aged as he had and he wished once more to sit  there. Did he think of Rosalind and Nitya watching from the veranda  that night as he sat under the tree, of how she had held his head and  soothed his pain. The valley was stirring with rumours of his last days.  Did he really ask if any old friends from the past had inquired after him?  Would he have wanted to see them if they had come? He was said to  have spoken a few last words, which he wanted recorded on tape. He  referred to an immense energy and intelligence that had used his body  for most of his life, that would go when the body goes and it would  be hundreds of years before it returned. He said nobody had lived the  teachings so nobody would know that consciousness. 
    If he did in fact say something of the sort, was he laying the foundation  for the temple which he had predicted in 1927 would be built around  him after his death? He said he would never permit it in his lifetime.  Or was he fading back to his earliest childhood memories °– hearing 
    322  
 
                         Ashes to Ashes 
    his mother's voice telling him he was born to be a great person? As  he would have wanted, each of us must find our own answer to this 
    and much more. 
    A few months later I had a letter from Shivakamu. Her nephew  and Rukmini's had received one-third of Krishna's ashes in India and  released them and Rukmini's together in the Ganges. The body has  gone and it remains for the future to determine how much of the myth  and the teachings will linger. The first steps toward immortalization  have already started. Recently my mother opened her mailbox and was  confronted by a four-inch profile portrait of Krinsh as well as a full-face  sixty paisa postage stamp on an Indian commemorative postal letter.  Would this secular tribute have pleased him? 
    I shall remember him in his blue denim shirt and jeans; his face full  of laughter under the large straw hat, with equal enthusiasm, pitching  cow pats on to the compost heap or tending his roses. 
    He brought to our lives love and happiness, as well as disharmony  and sorrow. 
    To Krinsh I feel grateful for many things. From earliest childhood  he taught me to be free from the desperate seeking and searching for  respectability and security, for gurus and masters and ideologies. I  learned from him that comparisons and labels lead to prejudice and  unhappiness, that conformity leads to mediocre imitation, that there  can be no freedom where there is guilt or fear. He let me be free from  him and taught me not to be afraid to wander in a pathless land. 