
30 
    Ashes to Ashes 
    In the summer of 1985, the mountains of Ojai were swept by a wildfire  that charred the whole north-western range. Under orders of the fire  department my mother piled her dog, Beato and Beato's three dogs  and a cat, into her car at midnight and drove to the Ojai Valley Inn.  They had hours of delay on the road with hot ash falling around them,  the temperatures in the high nineties and the dogs very upset. The inn  provided for them, animals and all, along with dozens of other refugees.  Knowing my mother was safe, we tried to evacuate my father, whose  house was only a few blocks from the fire but he refused to leave until  ordered by the police. The fire turned just then and backed over itself,  diminishing its fury. 
    A month later we drove into the Los Padres National forest to see  the last wild Californian condors. 
    Fog covered the hills, but under that shroud was nothing but grey  and white ash where once the white sage and black sage, sumac and  manzanita had flourished. Now stark charcoal stumps gave cover to an  occasional rabbit. 
    Less than half of last year's population of condors remained in the wild.  Above a valley near Mount Pinos they soared, looking for the carcasses  collected off the highway by those few people who still struggled to  allow the great birds their last days of freedom. 
    They came that day; first as black specks into the range of our  binoculars, then soaring up over the rim of the nearest hill, white  wing patches, head cocked at an angle watching against the odds for  a morsel lying amidst the dry grass. 
    Species disappear from the earth every day, never to return, but the 
    sheer size of these birds makes their disappearance more terrible. We 
    felt this tragic finality as we drove back towards Ojai, descending now 
    in full sunlight which revealed the horrors of the fire, no longer veiled 
    by fog. The inevitability of change, the rightness of it, is one thing to 
    accept rationally but days like this test the depth of one's acceptance. 
    Against this stark landscape there suddenly flooded memories of Ojai 
    318  
 
                   
Ashes to Ashes 
    in my childhood: playing in the orange orchards of Arya Vihara, Krinsh  waiting for me to get off the school bus, hiding out of sight behind the  rock wall. I thought of the care with which he taught me the small but  important details of life: tying one's shoes properly, polishing them,  brushing the dog. When such happy memories force themselves into  the present it 1s hard to understand how so much could have gone so  wrong. 
    The settlement terms were still being disputed. Finally, that winter  Raja accepted that there was no hope of his own peace with Krishna.  He filed for a jury trial. A court date was set for the following summer  of 1986. I knew I would be a witness at this trial and would return for  it in the spring, after another trip to India. 
    In January I drove to Ojai to say goodbye to my father, noticing  now small sprigs of green prodding their way through the carpet of  grey ash. There was still the threat of mudslides and floods if the rains  were not moderate that winter. 
    I heard that Krinsh had just returned to Ojai and that he was ill, but  no one I knew had any details. I had an impulse to try to see him, but  realized it would not be likely that on the spur of the moment I would  be allowed to do so and I abandoned the idea and left for India. 
    Beyond Madanapalle we followed the road still further from our course  toward the Rishi Valley School. Krinsh had been there only a few weeks  before. My mother had been there with him thirty years ago and had  walked with him along the stream, seen the great ancient boulders and  talked to his young people. I wanted to see for myself the place I had  always heard was one of the loveliest spots in India. 
    ?°„Krishnaji is very ill, they say he has cancer.' I could not believe these  words, spoken by the headmistress who had welcomed us, without  having any idea who we were. Perhaps it would have made no difference  one way or the other if she had known I was Rajagopal's daughter. Her  words stunned me. Cancer was the last thing I would have thought  Krinsh would succumb to °– even at ninety-two. 
    I left Rishi Valley with my thoughts a bleak veil against the gentle  verdant landscape. It was getting late and we had many miles to cover  before we reached the sea south of Madras, where we planned to spend  the night. 
    The next day we returned to Adyar after a ten-year absence. Nothing  much had changed. There were more graffiti; the guards at the gates,  posted to keep out troublemakers and beggars, were beggars themselves  asking for a small handout to buy milk for a new baby. There was a 
    319  
 
                   
 
    thinning of the sanctuary walls, a creeping encroachment of the real  world. 
    We had come to see Rukmini. On the phone the day before she had  said, ?(r)Please come quickly. I have something to tell you.' I did not  know whether the faintness of voice was due to weakness or a poor  connection. As soon as I saw her I knew. We found her sitting in a  chair in the living-room, eating her lunch. Her white hair was hanging  loose and she looked very ill. 
    ?(r)But she is getting better,?°¿ we were told by her older sister Shivakamu.  These two sisters are my father's oldest friends, I thought, since he was  here at Adyar as a boy of thirteen. 
    Rukmini drew me close and said, ?°„You must give your father a  message for me. I am too weak to telephone him.?°¿ Her face was drawn  with illness but her eyes, still beautiful, looked at me intently. 
    ?(r)Of course I will,?°¿ I promised. 
    ?(r)A friend of Krishna's °– a close friend here in India, has told him  he must make his peace with Rajagopal. Krishna promised him that  he would go back and do that. He is very ill you know. He will die  soon. He knows that. He even came to see me after forty years of  estrangement. We had a very friendly meeting. And he stood before  the portrait of Leadbeater and said ?°„?(r)pax?°¿. He has made his peace with  all of us here at Adyar and even wanted to give the Rajghat school  back to the Theosophists. He said it came from them and should go  back to them. He asked my nephew to run it, but he knows nothing  about running a school.' 
    She paused. This long rush of words had tired her and drawn the feeble  breath from her faltering lungs. But she forced herself to finish. 
    ?(r)If Krishna approached your father, would Raja be receptive? Could  you ask him to be receptive? I think it may be a very propitious time  for a reconciliation.' 
    ?(r)I am sure he would be receptive, but I think it unlikely Krishna will  approach him. However, I shall call him tonight from the hotel and  tell him what you have said.' I hugged her and told her I loved her and  how much her friendship meant to my father. 
    ?(r)When you get well enough to travel again, come to California,  Rukmini. I will take good care of you.'  I put my arms around her again and we both cried a little. ?(r)T'll call  you tomorrow and tell you what Daddy said.?°¿ I promised. 
    Unexpectedly I got an excellent connection from Madras to Ojai  with only a few minutes wait. I told my father every word of my  conversation with Rukmini. ?°„Thank her for me and give her my love,' 
    320  
 
                         Ashes to Ashes 
    he said. ?(r)It is a very nice thought but it will never happen. Don't have 
    false hopes.' 
    ?(r)But if Daddy, that's all, will you see him if he calls you?' 
    ?(r)Of course, but he will never do that.' 
    ?(r)Nevertheless, please do something for me,' 1 added, ?(r)if you have  any contact with Krinsh at all, please tell him I love him and would  like to be with him now. Do you know how ill he is?' 
    ?(r)I know nothing,?°¿ my father replied. ?(r)There are all sorts of rumours,  that's all.?°¿ I repeated his words to Rukmini the next day and we left  Madras for a long drive up the east coast of India. 
    On 22 February I read in the Calcutta Telegraph that Krinsh had died  five days before, 17 February (on Leadbeater's birthday.) He had said a  few months earlier that he knew the exact day on which he would die  but, supposedly, he had not shared this knowledge with anyone. 
    I had not expected his death to be such a shock. And the wave of  grief that came after, was the grief for a lost parent. I had never realized  how deeply I thought of him as that, though he had sometimes told  me he felt [ was his child. The obituary was written by Pupul Jayakar,  who had been with him at Ojai a few weeks before his death. He had  reiterated to her his hope that the teachings would not be distorted and  that people would keep the teachings and forget the teacher. 
    -Two days later, in New Delhi, I read that Rukmini had died. Exactly  one week after Krinsh.  As my father had expected, Krishna had made no attempt to get in  touch with him. Perhaps he had been too ill to try or perhaps those  close to him had discouraged the idea. 
    Krishna's death did not bring peace to Raja nor a resolution of the strife  that had been between them for twenty years. Until the eve of the court  trial Raja sought a settlement and finally the trustees of the Krishnamurti  Foundation signed a twenty-five page document designed to ?(r)ensure the  resolution of any and all disputes, past, present and future.' 
    The attorney's press release stated that: 
    the Krishnamurti Parties admit with respect to the prior lawsuits 
    that the Rajagopal Parties ?(r)have done nothing wrong, and have not 
    committed any acts which might be the basis for civil or criminal 
    charges or complaints'. 
    The Krishnamurti Parties further acknowledge that the documents 
    they sought to recover from the Rajagopal Parties in the prior lawsuits 
    are, in fact, Rajagopal's documents and may be kept by Rajagopal. 
    321  
 
                   
 
    The K&R Foundation which Raja had formed was turned over ?(r)as 1?®¨'  to the Krishnamurti Foundation and the latter agreed in the settlement to  ?(r)Indemnify the Rajagopal Parties . . . and hold them harmless against  any claims, complaints, causes of action, lawsuits . . . or allegations of  wrongdoing made by . . . any beneficiary of or successor in interest to  Krishnamurti.. 
    In other words, Raja had not only been cleared of any wrongdoing,  he had been judged correct in his claim to his collection of papers.  Above all, his past adversaries now had agreed that they must protect  all his life's work from a potential future attack by other parties. That  would have been a bitter pill for Krishna to swallow, one which he  had fortuitously escaped. 
    Whether or not such a settlement would have been possible during  Krishna's lifetime is a moot point. It is certain he would not have fared  well on the witness stand. Rosalind was spared the pain of such an  appearance also, although she was prepared to go through with it.  Sixteen years of litigation and three separate lawsuits all dropped at  the final hour, hundreds of thousands of dollars that might have been  spent on schools or publications, add up to a chronicle of waste. 
    The settlement imposed an uneasy peace among those left to live under  it but it did nothing to explain the causes of disharmony, the secret life  between my mother and Krinsh, the misunderstood behaviour of my  father toward Krinsh, the deceptions that had tried to the fullest his  willingness to forgive. 
    The pepper tree where Krishna had sat one summer evening in 1922  was still alive. It had aged as he had and he wished once more to sit  there. Did he think of Rosalind and Nitya watching from the veranda  that night as he sat under the tree, of how she had held his head and  soothed his pain. The valley was stirring with rumours of his last days.  Did he really ask if any old friends from the past had inquired after him?  Would he have wanted to see them if they had come? He was said to  have spoken a few last words, which he wanted recorded on tape. He  referred to an immense energy and intelligence that had used his body  for most of his life, that would go when the body goes and it would  be hundreds of years before it returned. He said nobody had lived the  teachings so nobody would know that consciousness. 
    If he did in fact say something of the sort, was he laying the foundation  for the temple which he had predicted in 1927 would be built around  him after his death? He said he would never permit it in his lifetime.  Or was he fading back to his earliest childhood memories °– hearing 
    322  
 
                         Ashes to Ashes 
    his mother's voice telling him he was born to be a great person? As  he would have wanted, each of us must find our own answer to this 
    and much more. 
    A few months later I had a letter from Shivakamu. Her nephew  and Rukmini's had received one-third of Krishna's ashes in India and  released them and Rukmini's together in the Ganges. The body has  gone and it remains for the future to determine how much of the myth  and the teachings will linger. The first steps toward immortalization  have already started. Recently my mother opened her mailbox and was  confronted by a four-inch profile portrait of Krinsh as well as a full-face  sixty paisa postage stamp on an Indian commemorative postal letter.  Would this secular tribute have pleased him? 
    I shall remember him in his blue denim shirt and jeans; his face full  of laughter under the large straw hat, with equal enthusiasm, pitching  cow pats on to the compost heap or tending his roses. 
    He brought to our lives love and happiness, as well as disharmony  and sorrow. 
    To Krinsh I feel grateful for many things. From earliest childhood  he taught me to be free from the desperate seeking and searching for  respectability and security, for gurus and masters and ideologies. I  learned from him that comparisons and labels lead to prejudice and  unhappiness, that conformity leads to mediocre imitation, that there  can be no freedom where there is guilt or fear. He let me be free from  him and taught me not to be afraid to wander in a pathless land. 