
 
Preface to the American Edition 
    Since this book was published in England in May 1991, and subsequently  found its way to other parts of the world, I have received numerous  letters and telephone calls. Almost without exception all expressed grati- tude that the arcas of obscurity to which I referred in my first preface have  now become clearer. Knowing more of the human side of Krishnamurti,  and the inconsistencies between his teachings and his private life, has  made his teachings more meaningful rather than detracting from them.  On my part, [ am grateful for all of these communications. They have  reaffirmed my hope that most of us do not fear discoveries that might  alter our perception of reality and that we are each free to imbue these  discoveries with whatever relevance is essential to us as individuals. 
    My regret is that Krishnamurti did not live to sce this book, for I tried  hard to have it published in his lifetime. He might not have read it, but he  would have known it was there and at least a part of him would have  understood why I had to write it. 
    X  
 
                   
Preface 
    This is not only the story of one person. It is the story of the relationships  of J. Krishnamurti and people closely involved with him, especially  Rosalind Williams Rajagopal and D. Rajagopal, my mother and father,  and of the consequences of this involvement on their lives. Recently  there have been biographies and a biographical film on Krishnamurti  that have left areas, and a large span of years, in mysterious darkness.  It is not in the interest of historical integrity, especially where such a  personality is concerned, that there be these areas of obscurity. 
 

Acknowledgments 
    Recent copyright laws require permission for the publication of a  person's letters, either from the writer or his literary estate. Therefore,  for obvious reasons, Krishna's letters to my mother have been omitted  from this book. They are in my possession and support the facts of the  story as | have presented it. 
    Certain other documents pertaining to the events herein will be sealed  for some years. Others to which I have had access are in my father's  historical collection. 
    I would like to thank Matthew Huxley for permission to quote  from Maria Huxley's letters; Christian von Ledebur and Ivan Moffat  for permission to quote from Iris Tree's letters and poetry; Joan Watts  Tabernick for permission to quote from Alan Watts' letter to Blanche  Matthias; Beatrice Wood for permission to use any of her letters and  writings; and Sybille Bedford for permission to quote from Aldous  Huxley (Alfred Knopf/Harper & Row, New York, 1974). 1 deeply  appreciate Liz Cowen's sensitive and perceptive editing and the helpful  support and advice of Liz Calder and the others at Bloomsbury who  helped to produce this book. I would like to add a special thanks to my  agent Rivers Scott for his belief in the book and his expert handling  of it. I also want to express my gratitude to those many friends who  have given me advice and shared with me their recollections. They will  know who they are. 
    Finally, and most importantly, I want to thank my husband, who  sustained me with his love, patience and illuminating insights through  the often difficult times involved in writing this story; my father for  his deep concern and silent support as I wrote; and my mother for her  extraordinary generosity in sharing with me all her correspondence as  well as the most intimate parts of her life which, but for her regard  for the truth, would have remained undisturbed. 
    X1  
 
                   
Between the idea  And the reality  Between the motion  And the act  Falls the Shadow 
    Between the conception  And the creation  Between the emotion  And the response  Falls the Shadow 
    . . . Between the potency  And the existence  Between the essence  And the descent  Falls the Shadow. 
    T. S. Eliot, The Hollow Men (1925) 
     Introduction 
    The Sage Garden 
    I see it still in dreams spun from earliest memories. The large pergola  covered with honeysuckle and trumpet vines sheltered a brick terrace.  At one end was the rectangular lily pond where my baby ducks swam.  Beyond were terraced lawns, shaded by towering pine trees; a patio,  arboured by pink roses sprouting from ancient trunks; and finally, the  redwood house, painted pale yellow. 
    Behind all this were the arid foothills of Ojai covered with the often  inhospitable, but beautiful chaparral Ал black and white sage, manzanita,  sumac and poison oak. Our garden with its water-thirsty lawns and  arbours defied these natural surroundings. In time its nature, like the  rarefied innocence of our lives, changed. 
    The garden was eventually transformed, not only by the sere realities  of environment, but also by the practical needs ofa productive orange  ranch. The orchard's requirement for space and especially for water  came first. 
    The orange ranch was the province of my uncle, Willic Weidemann.  With his practical German expertise, he managed the resources of our  land. Water came from Big Horn canyon just behind us. Droughts  were not infrequent. We adapted to what we were granted in rainfall  and weather. In summer the croquet lawn on the top tier was left to  wither to a brown carpet of burrs. To further conserve water, the  orchard was irrigated at night. I can still conjure up the tsk-tsk-tsk  of the sprinklers and the odour the parched earth gave off as it was  moistened. The orange trees, glistening pale silver in the moonlight,  turned their leaves like hands receiving an answered prayer. In harsh,  frosty winters Willie would work all night, turning on sprinklers to raise  the temperature, for we had no oil heaters (which we called smudge  pots) as they did down in the valley, set in rows along the trees. Yet  we were spared the black veil of smoke which shrouded the valley on  cold mornings. 
    As the orchard took our water, it also consumed our space. The  pergola, brick terrace and pool Ал as well as all the exotics in the      garden Ал disappeared. The scent of black sage rubbed between our  fingers during walks in the foothills would be better remembered  than the scent of honeysuckle arbours. Added to my collection of  pet ducks, geese and turkeys were the wild pets of the chaparral - a skunk, a chipmunk, possums, a baby king snake and the tanager  with a broken wing. Sometimes too, on moonlit nights, coyotes came  as close as the upper lawn to dance and bark before dawn sent them  prowling back to the hills. Often the odour of skunk drifted about the  house at night. Once we saw a condor soaring high above our garden  towards its nest on nearby Topa Topa Mountain. 
    Our world was a child's paradise and looking back, I think it must  have been an adult's paradise too. 
    The house was already old when I was born. It had grown around  a single classroom built long ago for the teachers' daughters from  Thacher's Boys' School up the road. It was called Arya Vihara, Sanskrit  for House of the Aryan, a name that has always embarrassed me,  especially in my school years during the Second World War. It was  not easy to explain the meaning to my friends, but there were many  things in our household that were not easy to explain; fortunately I  was brought up not to feel the need to do so. 
    It was sufficient that the adults in my life appeared to have found  a harmonious balance between the spiritual and intellectual hermitage  and the working ranch that existed in that unusual garden of sages. 
    The frequent visitors to Arya Vihara were cared for by my mother,  Rosalind. There were three meals a day: breakfast in bed for those guests  who preferred it, luncheon on the lawn or patio in good weather, and  dinner in the dining-room. We bathed and changed before gathering  in the evening. It was understood by all visitors that there would be  no smoking, alcohol or meat. 
    My father, Rajagopal, worked all day and late into the night, arranging 
    and editing Krishnamurti's talks and notebooks, appearing only for 
    dinner and occasionally for the four o'clock badminton game. 
    Eventually the row of acacias that lined the path between Krishna- 
   murti's cottage and the main house was also sacrificed to the orchard. 
    But before that happened, I often lurked on a high branch amid the 
    fragrant yellow puffs of acacia blossom. There I would wait for my 
    favourite victim to pass underneath and mischievously pour water 
    on his head. I was blissfully unaware that this person had once been 
    proclaimed the world teacher by leading members of the Theosophical 
    Society. No one used that term in my childhood. As I could not  
 
                   
The Sage Garden 
    pronounce his name, Krishnamurti, he was known to me always, as  Krinsh. V 
    Life changed considerably with the Second World War. There was  much more work for my mother. A vegetable garden, cows and  chickens, cheeses to be made with surplus milk and hand-churned  butter were added chores. There were beehives too. My mother and  Krinsh were the ones who put on nets and gloves and tackled the hives  while I extracted the honey. We were, in effect, self-sufficient during  the war; which was the idea, for as pacifists we did not want to be a  burden. Our war effort was sending as much food produce as we could  overseas. 
    It is those war years that stand out most clearly in my memory.  Where most people's lives were pulled apart, ours were bound together  as they never had been before and never would be again. My father's  and Krinsh's travelling was brought to a stop. We were all caught  together in Ojai for the duration. During the war my father moved  his office from Hollywood to Ojai. Due to petrol rationing, driving  was curtailed. We saved all year for enough petrol coupons to take us  to Sequoia National Park for six weeks in the summer. There, amidst  those gigantic three-thousand-year-old trees, we were joined by a whole  entourage from Ojai; family, friends, and the usual single lady devotees  who discreetly followed Krinsh everywhere they could. 
    Those who were closest to us then, those still living, must wonder  what went so wrong that such apparent harmony and vitality of spirit  and mind and physical enterprise should disintegrate disastrously into  a war of litigation. How three people, who for nearly half a century  seemed so inevitably bound together in totally unselfish lives, could  be involved in bitter and ugly charges brought by one of them against  another. How the high ideals of the brotherhood of man, the eschewing  of killing or injury to any creature, the search for freedom from  ambition, guilt, fear, could have dissolved into such discord. The  seeds of conflict must have been sown somewhere along the way,  beyond my memories. 
    In Part One I retrace a path back to the origins of Theosophy, how it  related to my immediate family and how it was the catalyst that brought  them together. Part Two is interwoven with my personal recollections  of incidents and people that had a bearing on our lives and Part Three  describes the sad harvest of seeds planted long ago.  
 