  PART ONE 
    EARLY HISTORY 
    The Path of Discipleship 
    (Late Nineteenth Century to 1931)  

    1 
    The Elders 
    Growing up with the world teacher, even if he had disclaimed that  title four years before my birth, had many side benefits. There was a  steady flow through our home of interesting and unusual people, most  of them mentally sound. Ours was hardly a life of mystical seclusion or  quiet contemplation, although Krinsh certainly fitted ?(r)being alone' into  his routine. Because of him I was spared one of the worst effects that  befall an only child: that of being the centre of attention. There was  clear awareness of who our centre was, and of the circle that radiated  from him in undiminishing magnetism to the farthest reaches of the  earth. That a man is not always a prophet in his own valley and that  even such a luminary as Krinsh had his dark side I would come only  gradually to realize. 
    Long before 1 was born, both of my parents had committed them- selves to Krinsh and to coping with the inevitable complexities attached  to life around him. Yet for all her hard work, my mother Rosalind  never lost the aura of unselfconscious glamour that had been hers since  she arrived in Hollywood in 1919. Nor did the increasing tensions in her  life dissipate her talent for spinning fun and excitement out of whatever  circumstances were offered. She loved games of all kinds and could play  chess with my father as well as badminton with Krinsh. 
    -As 1 child I saw very little of my father, nor did I see much of him  after that, but his personality was so strong that a little of him went  a long way and I know now that his influence on me was profound.  Those rare moments [ had with him I treasured, for there was no trivia  in him at all and everything he said, even his humour (in which he  abounded), was significant.  There was often an unspoken tension when my parents and Krinsh  were all together and sometimes the unspoken broke out into quite  vociferous arguments, the basis of which I would not understand for  many years. When other people were there these tensions evaporated  and the three of them seemed to form a comforting magic circle into  which the troubled or spiritually weary or confused could enter and  rest. Then there was much laughter; jokes and games broke the routine  of ?(r)serious' discussions. The transparent bond between them became  almost tangible. 
    The two images of Krinsh ⌒ the public and the private⌒ were engraved  in my earliest memory. It did not puzzle or concern me as a child that  our private Krinsh was so different from the one who appeared when  strangers came to the house. Our Krinsh, whose hair [ pulled as a baby,  whose lap [ sat on, who kissed my bruised knees and braided my hair,  who picked me up when I was afraid, who kissed my mother's hand  when he greeted her in the morning, who scolded her when she was  careless, or allowed her to scold him when he was difficult ⌒ this Krinsh  never appeared before strangers. The moment Krinsh walked into a  room of new visitors or not very intimate friends, both he and they  changed perceptibly, especially if they were devotees. The very way  he tried to melt into the room, as though he wished no one would  notice him, drew immediate attention. Conversation stopped. ?(r)Please  do go on, don't let me interrupt,?± he would say. But who would dare  continue when He was there? There was a reverent silence as all the  attention and energy in the room flowed toward him and poor Krinsh  then had the task of restoring the conversation. 
    Those occasional people who witnessed our ?(r)normal' behaviour were  probably shocked to the core. Fortunately no one was around when  my mother, in a cross between exasperation and playfulness, dumped  a plate of scrambled eggs on his head. We all ended up thinking that  was very funny. It was not the sort of incident that led to arguments  between them. Arguments stemmed from causes that were kept secret  even from me. 
    There were other adults in my childhood who did much to shape  my outlook. My grandmother, Sophia Williams, with whom [ spent  many of my first nine years, gave me her love for music and her eldest  daughter, my Aunt Erma, gave me her love for books and history and  nature. Another of Sophia's daughters, Grace, had married Willie and  their son David was one of my two playmates, the other being Krinsh.  As the Weidemanns lived next door, on the same ranch, David and  were inseparable from breakfast until dinner. 
    It was largely from Erma that I learned about the roots of our lives.  It was from Erma that I knew how my mother, an American girl from  Buffalo, New York, had met three young men from India in a distant  California valley; Krishnamurti, his brother, Nitya, and Rajagopal,  my father. This all happened because of Theosophy. During my early  childhood only Erma discussed Theosophy seriously with me. The great  
 
                   
 
  The Elders 
    rift between Krinsh and the Theosophical Society had taken place a few  years before my birth. It was Erma who told me many accounts of  the founders and their principles. She told me also that the meeting  and marriage of my parents illustrated the basis of Theosophy: the  bringing together of East and West, the universal brotherhood of man,  the breaking down of cultural barriers and prejudices. No matter what  their attitudes in later life, there was no doubt in Erma's mind that all  my adults owed a great deal of their present condition, philosophical,  psychological and material to their Theosophical elders. 
    Erma explained that the Theosophical Society, founded by a Russian  and an American, was based largely on their interpretation of Buddhism,  Hinduism and a blend of various occult theories unique to the founders.  Its aim was to explore the mysteries of nature and the latent powers  in man on which the study of Oriental philosophy could throw some  light. It was open to believers and non-believers, the orthodox and the  unorthodox. In the early days Theosophy had a strong appeal to those  who found little solace or satisfaction in orthodoxy and yet were not  content to count themselves as atheists. It also attracted that small but  articulate group of freethinkers and avowed atheists searching for some  order of spiritual sustenance amidst the seeds of nineteenth-century  science. In the late nineteenth century it was inevitable that the range of  ideas and activities Theosophy proposed would attract an equally wide  range of people. There were those who, as scholars, were interested in  pursuing the intercultural aspects of this new society. Many budding  politicians in India, after decades of suppression and denigration by the  British, found hope and support in the idea that Westerners would take  such an interest in their cultural and philosophical heritage. Almost every  country in the Western world, as well as Asia and Australia, eventually  had national and regional chapters in the society. The colourful and  sometimes sensational claims and activities of certain of its members  intrigued the world's press which, for many decades, hovered close  by. 
    As a young person | found Erma's accounts of these early Theoso- phists far more colourful than the philosophy Krinsh had formulated  as he detached himself from the society. In spite of the often expressed  scepticism about Theosophical ideas and incidents that would float  around the dining table (especially in the company of such guests as  Aldous Huxley), Erma would later provide me with the background of  that early history. Her beautiful hazel-green eyes wide with amazement,  she offered these accounts, not out of defiance or contradiction, but as  a vital component of her own psychological memory.      Thus I learned that in 1873, Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, a Russian  emigrant, and the granddaughter of a Princess had arrived in New  York. With her quizzical interest in spiritualism, she soon found her  way to a meeting with Colonel Henry Olcott, a lawyer who had  served in the Civil War as a fraud investigator. Olcott was, at the  time, observing the activities of a group of spiritualists for a series  of newspaper articles. Together, in a few years, these two explorers  in occult phenomena would form the Theosophical Society. 
    Erma seemed to accept comfortably Blavatsky's claim that since early  childhood she had been visited by a tall, dark, mysterious person whom  she took to be her protector. Blavatsky felt he had saved her from several  brushes with death or serious injury. Later she would identify him as the  Master Morya who, along with another adept, the Master Kuthumi, had  chosen her as their earthly messenger. 



    Blavatsky believed these adepts to be mortal, born as we are born and  eventually subject to death. Their purpose was to help mankind through  its most difficult periods. Throughout her life, Blavatksy claimed to feel  their protection and her writing was closely associated with them. She  made them the cornerstone of the Theosophical movement. In time,  other members would claim direct communication with them, alleging  to also receive the Masters' instructions and guidance. As even Erma  had to admit, these independent communions would sometimes lead  to conflicts and splits within the society. When would venture to  check out the idea of Masters with Krinsh he would snort, That is  all irrelevant.' 

布拉瓦茨基相信这些大师是会死的，就像我们生来一样，最终会走向死亡。他们的目的是帮助人类度过最困难的时期。在她的一生中，Blavatksy声称感受到了他们的保护，她的写作与他们密切相关。她使它们成为神学运动的基石。随着时间的推移，其他成员将声称与他们直接沟通，声称也收到了大师的指示和指导。就连埃尔玛也不得不承认，这些独立的公报有时会导致社会内部的冲突和分裂。当他敢和Krinsh一起去看大师们的想法时，他会嗤之以鼻，“这都无关紧要。”

    I found Blavatsky and her Masters far too interesting to be dismissed  with a snort and I would soon beg Erma for more tales. I learned  that Blavatksy was a wilful and unconventional young woman. To  spite a governess, who tauntingly told her no one would ever marry  her, she became engaged to a man three times her age. Horrified at  what she had done, she tried unsuccesstully to break the engagement.  Displaying considerable ingenuity and courage, she then eluded the close  surveillance of that disappointed husband and at seventeen embarked on  extensive travels. Strangely, Krinsh seemed to countenance Blavatsky's  exploits on the worldly plane with better grace than those on the occult.  It was acceptable to believe that she had joined the forces of the Italian  patriot Garibaldiin his campaign to unify Italy. Colonel Olcott claimed to  have been shown her left arm, broken in two places by a sabre when she  served as a volunteer at the battle of Mentana. She also revealed to him  the trace ofa musket bullet still embedded in her shoulder and another  in her right leg. A scar just below her heart recorded the spot where  she had been stabbed by a stiletto a wound so profound that she had  been left in a ditch as dead. Blavatsky apparently did not intend these  details for the public for when she read an account in the American  Mercury, she declared it was a lie and nobody's business, that she had  never been on Garibaldi's staff and had just gone with friends to Mentana  to help shoot the papists. (Krinsh loved the part about shooting the  papists.) 

我发现布拉瓦茨基和她的老师们的故事太有趣不能嗤之以鼻，我很快就会向埃尔马要更多的故事。我得知布拉瓦茨西是一个任性而不寻常的年轻女子。为了摆脱一个政府，政府断断续续地告诉她没有人会娶她，她与一个比她大三倍的男人订婚了。她对自己所做的感到恐惧，但未能打破承诺。她表现出相当的聪明才智和勇气，然后避开了对这位失望的丈夫的密切监视，17岁时开始了广泛的旅行。奇怪的是，Krinsh似乎比幕后的人更优雅地对布拉瓦茨基议员在世界飞机上的剥削进行了调查。可以接受的是，她加入了意大利爱国者加里波第的部队，参加了统一意大利的运动。奥尔科特上校声称，她的左臂被展示，当她在门塔纳战役中担任志愿者时，她的左臂被一把剑打断了两个地方。她还向他透露了一枚仍嵌在她的肩膀上的野马子弹的痕迹，另一枚嵌在她的右腿上。就在她心脏下方的一块伤疤记录了她被细高跟鞋刺伤的地方，伤口很深，以至于她死在沟里。布拉瓦茨基显然没有向公众提供这些细节，因为当她在《美国水星》上读到一个账户时，她说这是一个谎言，没有人做生意，她从来没有去过加里波第的工作人员，只是和朋友们一起去门塔纳帮助枪杀了教皇。（Krinsh喜欢拍摄教皇的部分。）

    As the episode at Mentana circulated among Theosophists, however,  it gained even more colour. One version was that Blavatsky had died  at the battle of Mentana. She was dead in the ditch when the Master  Morya interceded, deciding that her body would make a good vehicle  for another Chela (student disciple) to assume and carry on the work of  the adepts. Strange as this account might be, it was given some support  by Colonel Olcott. This long-suffering, rational, but sometimes gullible  man had many difficult moments with Blavatsky's temperamental and  powerful spirit, which he had trouble reconciling with the physical  exterior of a Victorian lady. Olcott sometimes came upon Blavatsky  late at night, working on her memoirs. Unaware of his presence, she  would be going through the motions of parting and drawing over each  ear an invisible beard. She gave so graphic a pantomime that Olcott  could almost see the long wispy beard, worn in this Rajput style by  one of the Masters. 

然而，随着门塔纳的这一集在神学家中流传，它获得了更大的色彩。一个版本是布拉瓦茨基在门塔纳战役中丧生。当莫里亚大师拦截时，她死在沟里，决定她的身体将为另一个Chela（学生弟子）提供一辆很好的车乘，以承担和开展弟子的工作。奇怪的是，奥尔科特上校给予了一些支持。这位长期受苦、理性但有时脾气暴躁的人有很多困难，布拉瓦茨基的性情和强大的精神，他很难与维多利亚时代女士的外表和解。奥尔科特有时深夜来到布拉瓦茨基，在她的回忆录上工作。如果不知道他在这里，她就会经历在每个耳朵上画一只看不见的胡子的动作。她给了奥尔科特一个如此图形化的哑剧，以至于奥尔科特几乎可以看到其中一位大师以这种拉杰普特风格戴着的长胡子。

    Certainly many stories about Blavatsky's life, apocryphal or not,  are extraordinary, even when applied to a lady of an age abounding  in extraordinary women. She once amazed a sea captain, who later  recounted he had seen her light her cigar, without matches or other  observable assistance, while standing at the rail in the midst of a  furious storm. Every other living creature had been driven below  deck. Of greatest significance to Blavatsky, in her spiritual evolution,  were the years she claimed to have spent living and studying with the  Masters in their occult dwelling place, Tibet. She learned to materialize  objects and to receive written messages from the Masters. When Aldous  Huxley came into our life, he maintained that Blavatsky was a complete  charlatan, referring to her materializations as hoaxes. Seeing the allegedly  materialized objects in the Theosophical Museum in Adyar some thirty  years later gave me no additional illumination. 

当然，许多关于布拉瓦茨基生活的故事，无论是否虚构，都是非同寻常的，即使适用于一位拥有众多非凡女性的年龄段的女士。她曾让一位船长感到惊讶，后来这位船长回忆说，他看到她在没有火柴或其他明显帮助的情况下，站在一场猛烈的风暴中的栏杆旁点燃雪茄。所有其他生物都被赶到甲板下。对布拉瓦茨基来说，在她的精神进化中，最重要的是她声称在大师们神秘的居住地西藏与大师们一起生活和学习的那些年。她学会了物化物体和接收大师们的书面信息。当奥尔德斯・赫胥黎进入我们的生活时，他坚持认为布拉瓦茨基是一个彻头彻尾的江湖骗子，并将她的物质化称为骗局。大约三十年后，在阿德亚尔的神学博物馆看到这些所谓的实物，我没有得到任何额外的启发。

    It was Blavatsky's special mission to form the Esoteric Society within  the Theosophical ranks. The Theosophical Society welcomed any sin- cere person to membership. The Esoteric Society, or ES as it came to  be called, was strictly for those who had proved their dedication to  Theosophy, mostly through work. These select members were deemed ready for exposure to the ancient wisdoms which would help them along  the Path of the Masters. Membership of the ES was supposed to be  absolutely secret. But I soon gathered that at one time Krinsh and my  father, as well as Erma, had belonged to it. 

布拉瓦茨基的特殊使命是在神智阶层中组建密教协会。神学协会欢迎任何有罪恶感的人加入。密教协会（Esoteric Society，简称ES）严格为那些主要通过工作证明了自己对神智学的奉献精神的人服务。这些经过挑选的成员被认为已经准备好接触古代智慧，这将帮助他们沿着大师之路前进。ES的成员资格本应是绝对保密的。但我很快就意识到，有一段时间，Krinsh和我的父亲以及Erma都属于它。

    To the end Blavatsky retained a strong antipathy toward religion,  especially Christianity (an attitude that won her many enemies).  She saw modern religions as decayed forms of the original wisdom religion. She also disliked ceremony and ritual, never com- mitting herself to personal restrictions in behaviour or diet, such  as vegetarianism, usually embraced by her fellow Theosophists. 

最后，布拉瓦茨基仍然强烈反对宗教，特别是基督教（这种态度赢得了她的许多敌人）。她认为现代宗教是原始智慧宗教的衰落形式。她还阅读了仪式和仪式，从不将自己限制在行为或饮食上，如素食主义，通常被她的神学家同事拥抱。

    Erma used to say that an inevitable chain of circumstances leading to  my parents' marriage was set in motion the day her grandfather, Carl  Waldo, met Madame Blavatsky. Carl Waldo had left his aristocratic  background in Germany as a young man to emigrate to America,  where he eventually made a fortune in hansom cabs. He was also  excommunicated for becoming a Freemason. This grandfather was the  original source of Erma's involvement in Theosophy, an involvement  that would affect not only her life but the lives of her mother and her  three sisters. 

埃尔玛过去常说，导致我父母结婚的一系列不可避免的情况在她的祖父卡尔・沃尔多见到布拉瓦茨基夫人的那天就开始了。卡尔・沃尔多年轻时离开了德国的贵族背景，移民到美国，最终在那里开着汉索姆出租车发了财。他也因成为共济会会员而被逐出教会。这位祖父是埃尔玛参与神智学的最初来源，这种参与不仅会影响她的生活，还会影响她母亲和三个姐妹的生活。

    It all started with a body, Erma told me one day, no, not an astral  body a corpse.' 
    One day in May 1876 Carl Waldo went down from Buffalo to New  York City to attend a funeral in the Masonic temple. The deceased  Bavarian nobleman, Joseph Henry Louis, Baron de Palm, Knight of  St John of Malta, Prince of the Roman Empire and Fellow of the  Theosophical Society, would attain more fame as a corpse than he  ever had alive. He had left his worldly goods (which were nil) and his  body, which would prove to be more significant, to the executorship of  Colonel Olcott. The Baron specified that he wished to be cremated. This  was not a simple request. Olcott had to wait six months after the funeral  before the first crematorium in America was completed. The Baron's  was the first body in the United States to be publicly cremated with  official sanction; an event covered extensively by the national press. 

Erma有一天告诉我，这一切都是从一个身体开始的，不，不是一个星体躯体，一个尸体。
1876年5月的一天，卡尔・沃尔多从布法罗来到纽约市，在共济会寺庙参加葬礼。已故的巴伐利亚贵族约瑟夫・亨利・路易斯、帕尔姆男爵、马耳他圣约翰骑士、罗马帝国王子和哲学协会研究员，作为一具尸体，他的名声将比他活着的时候更大。他把他的世界商品（零）和他的尸体（事实证明，这将更加重要）交给了奥尔科特上校的处决。男爵明确表示，他希望被火化。这不是一个简单的要求。奥尔科特必须在葬礼六个月后才能完成美国的第一个火葬场。男爵是美国第一个受到官方制裁的公开火化尸体；国家媒体广泛报道的一项活动。

    At the funeral in New York City, Carl Waldo found the Masonic  Temple full of spiritualists, journalists and hecklers. In that audience,  giving her moral support to her friend Olcott, was Helena P. Blavatsky.  Although this occasion awakened Carl's interest in Blavatsky and her  fledgling society, he went home to Buffalo as uncommitted to Theoso- phy as he was to all the many philosophies he had explored throughout  his life. But his account sparked an enduring interest in his grand- daughter Erma.  
 
在纽约市的葬礼上，卡尔・沃尔多发现了共济会寺庙，里面挤满了精神主义者、记者和暴徒。在那次听证会上，海伦娜・P・布拉瓦茨基向她的朋友奥尔科特提供了道义上的支持。虽然这一次唤醒了卡尔对布拉瓦茨基和他的逃亡社会的兴趣，但他回到布法罗时，并没有像对待他一生中探索的许多哲学那样致力于哲学。但他的账户引发了他孙女埃尔玛的持续兴趣。
                   
    Erma's forebears were a mixture of idealists and atheists, pacifists and  eccentrics. She would always remain proud of them. Her father John  Williams was, if not an avowed atheist, totally against any churchgoing.  Yet he could quote scripture to his advantage when he chose to do so. 

埃尔马的祖先是理想主义者和无神论者、和平主义者和偏心主义者的混合体。她将永远为他们感到骄傲。她的父亲约翰・威廉姆斯即使不是一个公开的无神论者，也完全反对去教堂。然而，当他选择这样做时，他可以引用圣经来为自己加分。

    By the time Rosalind was born in 1903, the last of four daughters, her  parents' marriage had become increasingly unhappy. Sophia Williams  had married John on the rebound and had never come to love him. She  had wept through her first pregnancy and wept through all the three  following. John's once equable disposition became erratic. Erma said he  would go out of the house like a lamb in the morning and come home  raging like a lion, or vice versa. In spite of his dedication to politics  (he was elected to the New York State Assembly twice), John never  forgot he was an artist and he spent long hours painting in the attic at  night, making Rosalind hold up a lantern for him until she thought her  arm would wither at the shoulder. In 1919 when Rosalind was sixteen,  Erma Williams led her family to California, her mother away from an  estranged husband and her sisters from a tyrannical father. 

当罗莎琳德于1903年出生时，她是四个女儿中的最后一个，她父母的婚姻变得越来越不幸福。索菲亚・威廉姆斯是在失恋后嫁给约翰的，她从来没有爱上过他。她在第一次怀孕期间哭过，在接下来的三次怀孕期间也哭过。约翰曾经平和的性格变得反复无常。埃尔玛说，他早上出门时像只小羊，回家时像只狮子，反之亦然。尽管约翰投身于政治(他曾两次当选纽约州议会议员)，但他从未忘记自己是一名艺术家。晚上，他花了很长时间在阁楼上画画，让罗莎琳德为他举着灯笼，直到她觉得自己的手臂都要枯萎了。1919年，当罗莎琳德16岁的时候，厄玛・威廉姆斯带着她的家人来到加利福尼亚，她的母亲离开了疏远的丈夫，她的姐妹们离开了暴虐的父亲。

    Both Erma and Rosalind were endowed with adventurous natures.  As the train carried them across the prairies and deserts their minds  cleared and stretched with the skies. The terrain of the far west spread  in ever-increasing immensity before them. They did not then imagine  how open they would have to be to embrace the future that awaited  them. 

艾尔玛和罗莎琳德都有冒险的天性。当火车载着他们穿过草原和沙漠时，他们的头脑变得清晰起来，在天空中舒展开来。遥远西部的地形在他们面前展现得越来越广阔。他们当时没有想到，要拥抱等待他们的未来，他们必须多么开放。

    Nestled in the hills a few blocks from the glamour of Hollywood  Boulevard was the Theosophical enclave. Here, in architectural fan- tasies ranging from English cottage to Hindu templesque, dwelt an  international assortment of Theosophists. They were, of course, not  drawn to Hollywood for its movie world, but for the pure air and  sunshirie, the oranges, and the ambience of spiritual freedom that the  Los Angeles basin offered. 

在离好莱坞大道几个街区远的山上，坐落着一个神智学飞地。在这里，从英式小屋到印度寺庙的建筑迷宅中，住着来自世界各地的神智学者。当然，他们不是被好莱坞的电影世界所吸引，而是被洛杉矶盆地所提供的纯净的空气和阳光、橘子和精神自由的氛围所吸引。

    Rosalind, with her classical face, golden hair, and naturally high  colouring, was stared at and often taken for a young actress, much to her  mother Sophia's dismay. In those days, Hollywood Boulevard, with its  streetcar in the centre, was the scene of much exotica. Pola Negri walked  her pet leopard there, the Sennet bathing beauty, Gloria Swanson,  strolled by, and Harold Lloyd perfomed his stunts on the Taft Building.  A mile or two away, along the still rural Sunset Boulevard, flamboyant  mansions were being erected for the movie stars and moguls. 

罗莎琳德有着古典的面孔，金色的头发，天生的高肤色，人们盯着她看，常常把她当成年轻的女演员，这让她的母亲索菲亚非常沮丧。在那些日子里，以有轨电车为中心的好莱坞大道是一个充满异国情调的地方。波拉・内格里(Pola Negri)在那里遛着她的宠物豹子，Sennet沐浴美女格洛丽亚・斯万森(Gloria Swanson)在那里漫步，哈罗德・劳埃德(Harold Lloyd)在塔夫脱大厦(Taft Building)上表演特技。一两英里之外，沿着宁静的乡村风光的日落大道(Sunset Boulevard)，正在为电影明星和大亨们修建华丽的豪宅。

    Mary Gray, an eminent Bostonian and Theosophist, offered Erma a  position running her small School of the Open Gate in the Ojai Valley, eighty miles north of Hollywood. Mrs Gray had transplanted herself  and her children to this valley, already a Theosophical centre. Erma  soon arranged for her family to come up to Ojai. Rosalind stayed in  Mary Gray's house with Erma, while Sophia and Grace lived in a small  bungalow on the property adjacent to Mary Gray's estate. 

玛丽・格雷是一位著名的波士顿人，也是一位神智学家，她给埃尔玛提供了一个职位，让她在好莱坞以北80英里的欧康山谷开办一所小型的“敞开的门”学校。格雷太太把自己和孩子们搬到了这个山谷，这里已经是一个通神学中心了。埃尔玛很快安排她的家人来欧康。罗莎琳德和厄玛住在玛丽・格雷的房子里，而索菲亚和格蕾丝则住在玛丽・格雷庄园附近的一间小平房里。


    Sophia, a talented pianist, then in her fifties, never learned to like the  country. She had moved from her birthplace, where she had lived her  whole life amid a closely knit family of brothers and sisters, with strong  musical ties, to a rustic little cottage in a dry rocky valley, amidst a group  of Theosophists towards whom she felt neither interest nor disapproval.  Her move to California had taken a lot of fortitude. Innately a city  person, she returned to Hollywood, to settle there for the remaining  twenty years of her life. 

索菲娅是一位才华横溢的钢琴家，当时她已经50多岁了，但她从未学会喜欢这个国家。在她的出生地，她一直生活在一个由兄弟姐妹组成的亲密家庭中，有着强烈的音乐联系。她从那里搬到了一个位于干燥的岩石山谷中的乡村小屋，住在一群她既不感兴趣也不反对的神智学者中间。她搬到加利福尼亚需要很大的毅力。作为一个天生的都市人，她回到了好莱坞，在那里度过了她生命中剩下的二十年。

    None of my elders had ever actually met Blavatsky so the differences  in their opinions about her were not so puzzling, but there was another  colourful person of those early days whom both of my parents and  Krinsh had known well. I would remain disturbed for many years by  the marked divergence of opinion between Krinsh and my parents when  it came to Charles Webster Leadbeater. It was clear that Leadbeater had  played a key role in both my father's and Krinsh's lives. It was he  who ?(r)discovered' them as young boys, and lifted them from their  backgrounds and families to be launched on what he proposed to be  extraordinary futures. 

我的长辈们都没有真正见过布拉瓦茨基，所以他们对她的不同看法也就不那么令人费解了。但是，在我的童年时代，还有一位多姿多彩的人物，我的父母和克林什都很了解她。多年来，在查尔斯・韦伯斯特・利德比特的问题上，我和父母之间的意见分歧一直困扰着我。很明显，利德比特在我父亲和Krinsh的生活中都扮演了关键的角色。是他在孩子们还小的时候就发现了他们，把他们从自己的背景和家庭中解救出来，让他们踏上他所设想的非凡的未来。

    They all agreed that Leadbeater was an awesome figure with his  strong, intent face, white beard and piercing eyes. I was once told a  story about his arrival in Hollywood, where, during a lecture tour, he  was to stay with fellow Theosophists. After watching two burly men  struggle to lift his very large trunk up the steps, he remarked with  withering scorn, ?(r)Humph! Meat-eaters!?± and hefted it on to his own  shoulders with no difficulty. 

他们都认为利德比特是一个令人敬畏的人物，他有一张强壮而专注的脸，白胡子和锐利的眼睛。我曾经听人讲过他来到好莱坞的故事，在一次巡回演讲中，他要和一些神智学者呆在一起。看到两个魁梧的人费力地把他的大箱子抬上台阶后，他带着一种尖刻的轻蔑说:“哼!肉食者! ?然后毫不费力地把它扛在肩上。

    My mother remembers Leadbeater as a kindly, though firm, old 
    man who aroused no fear in her. My father, who knew Leadbeater 
    primarily through a steady correspondence that lasted for over a decade, 
    always spoke of him with affection and grattude for his practical and 
    spiritual guidance. Erma had Theosophical faith in Leadbeater's occult 
    knowledge. Krinsh portrayed him as harsh and overbearing. Although 
    he owed to Leadbeater his early education, restored health and incredible 
    future, I sensed neither gratitude nor fondness in his references to his old 
    protector. Neither of my parents ever questioned Leadbeater's integrity. 
    Not even Krinsh doubted his veracity on the earthly plane, although by 
    the time I was born he sounded as though he had rejected the occult  findings of this man, who claimed to have found him through occult  knowledge. 

在我母亲的记忆中，利德比特是个和蔼而坚定的老人
一个不会让她害怕的男人。我父亲，他认识利德比特
主要是通过持续了十多年的稳定通信，
说起他总是带着深情和感激之情因为他的务实和
精神上的指导。厄玛对利德比特的神秘学有神智学的信仰
知识。Krinsh把他描绘成一个严厉而专横的人。虽然
多亏了利德比特的早期教育，他恢复了健康，令人难以置信
在他提到他的父亲时，我既没有感到感激，也没有感到喜爱
保护者。我父母从未质疑过利德比特的正直。
即使是Krinsh也没有怀疑他在尘世的真实性，尽管
在我出生的时候，他听起来好像拒绝了这个人的神秘发现，这个人声称通过神秘的知识找到了他。

    The adventures in Leadbeater's life are as fantastic as Blavatsky's. He  had a vivid imagination. His style of writing drew no line between fact  and fantasy. One could easily believe that every word was rooted in  fact, for his descriptions were impressive and convincing. For example,  he could put into simple words complex observations in the developing  field of molecular science. 

利德比特一生中的冒险经历和布拉瓦茨基的一样精彩。他有丰富的想象力。他的写作风格不分事实与幻想。人们很容易相信他说的每一句话都是事实，因为他的描述令人印象深刻，令人信服。例如，他可以用简单的语言把分子科学领域中复杂的观察结果表达出来。

    When one is confronted with the total body of Leadbeater's writings,  which explores everything from the metaphysical evolution of man, to  the solar system, the astral plane, thought forms, molecular structure,  the consciousness of rocks, transubstantiation and elementals, it is  understandable that some believe it could only have been achieved  through clairvoyant means. His writings are a phenomenal effort closely  matching the achievement of Blavatsky herself.! 

当一个人面对Leadbeater的全部作品时，它探索了从人类的形而上学进化到太阳系、星光层、思想形态、分子结构、岩石意识、变形和元素的一切，这是可以理解的，有些人认为它只能通过透视的手段来实现。他的作品是一项非凡的努力，与布拉瓦茨基本人的成就不相上下。

    One of my favourite Leadbeater stories is an account of his exploits  in South America, where his father was directing the construction of  a railway. On a trip into the jungle, Charles, his brother Gerald and  their father were captured by rebels, whose leader demanded that they  join his army or be executed. The rebels prepared to administer an  oath of allegiance which involved trampling on a crucifix. Leadbeater's  horrified father made a sudden dash into the jungle and disappeared.  Gerald was then ordered to trample on the crucifix. Refusing to do so,  he was killed. Charles was tied between two trees, and a fire set under his  feet. Fainting from pain, Charles suddenly saw his dead brother Gerald  standing in front of him, looking peaceful and happy. Leadbeater was  reassured by this vision and held on until the middle of the night when  his father returned and rescued him. When a band of volunteers left  to fight-the rebels, Charles begged permission to ride with the men,  hoping this would give him the opportunity to avenge the death of his  brother. Eventually Charles found himself attacking the leader with a  sword. Although he was pitted against the ?(r)best swordsman' in South  America, the young Charles leapt on top of his foe, holding the point  of his sword to his throat. Just then the silver and ebony crucifix  around Leadbeater's neck fell out. Seeing it, the rebel leader cried out  for mercy. Unmoved, Leadbeater was about to plunge the sword into  his victim's neck. However, he felt his arm being held back. Turning,  he saw his dead brother Gerald. The rebel saw him too and was terrified.  Unable now to carry out his vengeance, Leadbeater left his fallen enemy  lying on the ground and walked away, ?(r)saved by a ghost' as he later 
    entitled this story.? (That was not the end of Gerald, who, according  to Leadbeater, later reincarnated into a young Singhalese, Jinarajadasa,  whom Leadbeater discovered, educated and took into the fold of the  Theosophical Society, to one day become its President.) 

我最喜欢的一个利德比特的故事是关于他在南美洲的事迹，他的父亲在那里指挥修建一条铁路。在一次进入丛林的旅行中，查尔斯、他的兄弟杰拉尔德和他们的父亲被叛军俘虏，叛军的领导人要求他们加入他的军队，否则就会被处决。叛乱者准备进行一场包括践踏十字架的效忠宣誓。leadbeat的父亲吓坏了，他突然冲进丛林消失了。然后杰拉尔德被命令践踏十字架。由于拒绝这样做，他被杀了。查尔斯被绑在两棵树之间，脚下生着一堆火。查尔斯痛得昏过去，突然看见他死去的哥哥杰拉尔德站在他面前，看上去安详而幸福。这景象让利德比特放心了，他一直坚持到半夜，他的父亲回来救了他。当一队志愿军出发与叛军作战时，查理请求允许他和他们一起骑马，希望这能给他机会为他死去的哥哥报仇。最后查理发现自己在用剑攻击首领。尽管他的对手是南美“最好的剑客”，年轻的查尔斯还是跳到了对手的身上，用剑尖抵住了对手的喉咙。就在这时，利德比特脖子上的银黑檀木十字架掉了下来。看到这一幕，叛军领袖大声求饶。利德比特不为所动，正要把剑刺进受害者的脖子。然而，他感到他的手臂被拉了回来。转过身来，他看见了死去的哥哥杰拉尔德。叛军也看见了他，吓坏了。现在，利德比特无法实施他的复仇，他把倒下的敌人扔在地上，然后走开了，后来他被一个鬼魂救了
这个故事的标题是?(这并不是杰拉尔德的结局，根据利德比特的说法，他后来转世成为一个年轻的僧伽罗人吉纳拉贾达萨(Jinarajadasa)，利德比特发现、教育了他，并把他带进了神智学会(Theosophical Society)，有一天他成为了该学会的会长。)

    Leadbeater's early biographies recount his attendance at Oxford and  his ordination into the Church of England. He soon found he was  unsuited for such orthodoxy. The Church fully concurred. 
利德比特的早期传记讲述了他在牛津大学的经历以及他被任命为英国国教的经历。他很快发现自己不适合这种正统观念。教会完全同意。

    Once, on a sea voyage, Leadbeater had spoken with the same captain  who had observed Blavatsky lighting her cigar in the storm. Leadbeater  was so intrigued that he investigated this extraordinary woman. His  findings led him to the Theosophical Society, which he joined in  1883. 
有一次，在一次海上航行中，利德比特和那个看见布拉瓦茨基在暴风雨中点雪茄的船长说过话。利德比特非常感兴趣，于是他调查了这位非凡的女人。他的发现使他加入了神智学会，并于1883年加入。

    The following year he met Blavatsky and travelled with her to India,  where he hoped to meet the Masters. His faith in the society and in  Blavatsky was already so great that he gave up everything to do this. In  1885, Colonel Olcott invited him to Ceylon to help revive an interest in  Buddhism there. In this they were both eminently successful. In Ceylon  Leadbeater eventually founded an English school for boys which would  grow into a major college. 
第二年，他遇到了布拉瓦茨基，并与她一起前往印度，他希望在那里见到大师。他对社会和布拉瓦茨基的信仰已经如此坚定，以至于他放弃了一切来做这件事。1885年，奥尔科特上校邀请他到锡兰，帮助恢复当地对佛教的兴趣。在这一点上，他们都非常成功。在锡兰，利德比特最终创办了一所男子英语学校，后来发展成为一所主要的大学。

    Gregory Tillett's biography of Leadbeater, published in 1982, has  cast doubt, at least among non-Theosophists, on some of Leadbeater's  accepted history. Tillett unearthed a birth date that would make  Leadbeater too young for his South American exploits at the time  alleged. Tillett found no record whatever of the younger brother  Gerald. It is possible, as it is possible with Blavatsky, that Leadbeater  was subject to an urge to embellish or rewrite his early history to accord  more closely with the role he felt was his destiny. 

格雷戈里・蒂利特于1982年出版的利德比特传记，至少在非神智论者中，对利德比特的一些公认的历史产生了怀疑。蒂利特发现了一个出生日期，这使得利德比特的年龄对于他当时在南美的功绩来说太年轻了。蒂利特没有找到任何关于弟弟杰拉尔德的记录。有可能，就像布拉瓦茨基一样，利德比特受到一种冲动的驱使，想要修饰或改写他的早期历史，以更贴近他认为是他命运的角色。

    I was aware from overheard conversations that Leadbeater was the  cause and centre of many storms within the Theosophical Society, but  my adults were united in repudiating the allegations that had been made  from time to time about Leadbeater's morals. 
我从无意中听到的谈话中知道，利德比特是神智学会内许多风暴的起因和中心，但我的大人们一致否认那些不时对利德比特的道德提出的指控。

    Whatever one's view of Leadbeater's occult histories, experiences  and morals, he had, as my father always emphasized, many admirable  qualities. He devoted the last half of his life to various aspects of  Theosophy. He was dedicated to education and worked diligently to  expand the consciousness of the young people around him. This was  his principal life work. Many of his ideas, particularly those concerned  with what today would be called sex education, were far enough ahead  of his time to cause outrage in the Victorian age. 
不管人们如何看待利德比特神秘的历史、经历和道德，正如我父亲一直强调的那样，他有许多令人钦佩的品质。他后半生致力于神智学的各个方面。他致力于教育，勤奋工作，以扩大他周围的年轻人的意识。这是他一生的主要工作。他的许多想法，特别是那些今天被称为性教育的想法，远远超前于他的时代，在维多利亚时代引起了愤怒。

    There was one person about whom all my elders were in complete  accord ⌒ Annie Besant. She, more than anyone, inspired them to  embark on those separate and confluent paths that led to their life  work. . 
有一个人，我所有的长辈对她的评价都是一致的――安妮・贝赞特。她比任何人都更能激励他们走上那些分开或融合的道路，最终走向他们的终身事业。

    Those in our circle, everyone I ever met who had known her, spoke  of her with the highest ⌒ almost reverential ⌒ esteem. My father feels to  this day that he owes everything good in his life to her. My mother  was guided by her on levels some of which only surfaced in later  years. Even Krishna, who nearly broke her heart, expressed his love  for her long after her death. They knew her for the last two decades of  her long and many faceted life ⌒ after she had become a Theosophist. 

我们圈子里的人，我遇到的每一个认识她的人，说起她时都带着崇高的敬意。我父亲至今仍觉得他生命中的一切美好都归功于她。我母亲在某些层面上受到她的指导，其中一些直到后来才浮出水面。即使是几乎伤透了她心的Krishna，在她死后很久也表达了对她的爱。在她成为一名神智学者之后的最后二十年里，他们认识了她漫长而多方面的生活。

    My mother described her extraordinary penetrating blue eyes and  her beautifully shaped head with its full crop of white hair that she  loved to have my mother brush. She took a firm but always kind  hand with the young people around her, teaching through her own  example, her personal fastidiousness, sitting quietly without fidgeting  to conserve valuable energy, her punctuality, reliability and dedication  to whatever one chose as one's vocation. She was steadfast and loyal  in her friendships. 

母亲向我描述了她那双非凡的、有穿透力的蓝眼睛，还有她那美丽的头型和她喜欢让母亲梳理的浓密的白发。她对周围的年轻人态度坚定，但总是和蔼可亲，她以自己的榜样来教导，她个人的一丝不苟，安静地坐着，从不坐立不安，以保存宝贵的精力，她守时，可靠，对任何一个人选择的职业都有奉献精神。她对自己的友谊既坚定又忠诚。

    Annie was proud of being three-quarters Irish. When she was only  five, her father died of tuberculosis. Her mother had foreseen her  husband's funeral, but then was too ill with grief to attend. At first  Annie had attributed this not uncommon clairvoyance of her mother's  to a psychological aberration. Later, as a Theosophist, she found it  easier to explain. 

安妮为自己有四分之三的爱尔兰血统而自豪。当她只有五岁的时候，她的父亲死于肺结核。她的母亲预见到了她丈夫的葬礼，但后来因悲伤而病得太重，无法参加。起初，安妮把她母亲这种并不罕见的洞察力归因于心理失常。后来，作为一名神智学者，她发现解释起来更容易了。

    In 1867, Annie married a young clergyman, Frank Besant. Their  mutual interest in the Anglican church had drawn them together, but  the marriage was doomed from the first to be unhappy. Frank Besant  displayed a cold and unrelenting insistence on his wife's obedience,  which he often reinforced with physical violence. 

1867年，安妮嫁给了一位年轻的牧师弗兰克・贝赞特。他们对英国国教的共同兴趣使他们走到了一起，但这段婚姻从一开始就注定不幸福。弗兰克・贝赞特对妻子的服从表现出冷酷无情的坚持，他经常用身体暴力来加强这种坚持。

    The birth of their first child, Arthur Digby, followed a difficult  pregnangy. Annie almost lost her second child, Mabel, to a severe  case of whooping cough. She sat for days with the suffering baby on  her lap, powerless to give relief. The doctor, believing death inevitable,  finally left a small bottle of chloroform to alleviate the agony. Annie's  carcful administration relaxed the paroxysm enough to allow breathing,  which turned out to be the cure. This brush with death and witnessing  the suffering of an innocent creature pushed Annie on her first step  toward atheism. After deep inner scrutiny and searching interviews  with some of the Church of England's most influential spokesmen,  she finally concluded that God did not exist. She left her husband, then  turned philosophically to scepticism and materialism, a course which  provoked Frank Besant to gain custody of both children. (Initially Annie had been granted custody over the little girl, Mabel.) Rather  than involve Digby and Mabel in bitter conflict, Annie accepted this  harsh judgment. However, she never lost faith that in maturity her  children would return to her of their own will. In this, as in much else,  she was correct. Although she refrained from engaging in a protracted  legal battle with her husband over her rights as a mother, she resolved  that other women should not so easily suffer the same fate. She worked  to change the law regarding women's rights in divorce. She also resolved  that no homeless or abused child would cross her path unnoticed. She  put her energies into active reform movements. 

他们的第一个孩子亚瑟・迪格比(Arthur Digby)在一次艰难的怀孕之后出生。由于严重的百日咳，安妮差点失去她的第二个孩子梅布尔。她把痛苦的婴儿抱在膝上坐了好几天，无力安慰她。医生相信死亡是不可避免的，最后留下了一小瓶氯仿来减轻痛苦。安妮细心的治疗使病情得到了缓解，病人可以呼吸了，这就是治疗方法。这种与死亡的擦身而过，目睹无辜生灵的痛苦，促使安妮向无神论迈出了第一步。经过深入的内心审视和对英国国教一些最有影响力的发言人的采访，她最终得出结论:上帝不存在。她离开了她的丈夫，然后转向哲学上的怀疑主义和唯物主义，这一过程激怒了弗兰克・贝赞特，他获得了两个孩子的监护权。(起初，安妮被授予了小女孩梅布尔(Mabel)的监护权。)安妮没有把迪格比和梅布尔卷入激烈的冲突，而是接受了这个严酷的判决。然而，她从未失去信心，相信长大后她的孩子会自愿回到她身边。在这一点上，就像在许多其他方面一样，她是正确的。尽管她没有与丈夫就自己作为母亲的权利展开旷日持久的法律斗争，但她下定决心，其他女性不应该如此轻易地遭受同样的命运。她致力于修改有关妇女离婚权利的法律。她还下定决心，不让无家可归或受虐待的孩子在她的道路上不被发现。她把精力投入到积极的改革运动中。

    By the time Annie was forty she was known throughout the English- speaking world as one of the great orators of her time and as a courageous  woman who plunged into those areas of reform that most horrified the  conservative society of the 1880s: birth control and union organization.  She bore with courage and dignity the ridicule as well as the renown  which her activities drew upon her. She moved in the radical circles  of Charles Bradlaugh, a noted materialist, of Fabian socialists and of  suffragettes. 

到安妮四十岁的时候，她在整个英语世界都被认为是她那个时代最伟大的演说家之一，也是一个勇敢的女人，她投身于那些让19世纪80年代的保守社会最震惊的改革领域:生育控制和工会组织。她以勇气和尊严忍受着她的活动给她带来的嘲笑和名声。她加入了著名唯物主义者查尔斯・布拉德劳、费边社会主义者和妇女参政权论者的激进圈子。

    When, in 1888, she met Blavatsky, having already read and reviewed  Blavatsky's latest book on the mysteries, The Secret Doctrine, Annie  Besant was ready for a sweeping change. She had come to feel that  a materialistic philosophy no longer sustained her. She believed her  work for the brotherhood of mankind could better flourish under the  banner of Theosophy. But if Theosophy wrought deep changes in her,  she too would bring changes to it, through her altruistic nature and  humanitarian interests. Blavatsky claimed that materialism and atheism  were no impediments to being a Theosophist. Nevertheless, Annie  Besant quickly moved away from her own scepticism. She came to  believe, without reservation, in the existence of the Masters and in  the occult plane on which they sought to guide the world out of its  conflict, a conflict being fought between the dark brotherhood and the  white brotherhood, black and white magic. She and Blavatsky became  close personal friends, after which Annie underwent a series of mystical  experiences which had a profound affect on her, sustaining her in later  difficulties. 

1888年，当安妮・贝赞特遇到布拉瓦茨基时，她已经阅读并评论了布拉瓦茨基关于神秘的最新著作《秘密教义》(the Secret Doctrine)，她已经准备好迎接一个彻底的改变。她开始感到唯物主义哲学已不能支撑她了。她相信，在神智学的旗帜下，她为人类兄弟情谊所做的工作可以更好地蓬勃发展。但是，如果神智学给她带来了深刻的变化，那么她也会通过她的利他主义天性和人道主义利益给神智学带来变化。布拉瓦茨基声称，唯物主义和无神论并不是成为神智学者的障碍。然而，安妮・贝赞特很快改变了自己的怀疑态度。她开始毫无保留地相信大师们的存在，相信他们试图在神秘的层面上引导世界走出冲突，一场黑暗兄弟会和白色兄弟会之间的冲突，一场黑白魔法之间的冲突。她和布拉瓦茨基成为亲密的私人朋友，此后安妮经历了一系列对她产生深远影响的神秘经历，使她在后来的困难中坚持下来。

    One of Annie's closest friends was George Bernard Shaw, who  had long admired her for her intellect as well as for her charm and  magnetism. Shaw had introduced her to vegetarianism as an ethical  practice some years before she became a Theosophist. But he was  astonished and perplexed, even vexed, by this amazing change in a  woman he so deeply respected for her rational and effective activities  on the worldly level. He had once even suggested marriage with her,  but she declined, instead drawing up a contract under which they would  live together. Shaw, when he read this document threw up his hands  and exclaimed, ?(r)Good God, woman! That's worse than any marriage.'  However close they remained, he never followed her into her new  philosophy. 

乔治・萧伯纳是安妮最亲密的朋友之一，他长期以来一直钦佩她的智慧以及她的魅力和吸引力。在她成为一名神智学者的几年前，肖把素食主义作为一种道德实践介绍给了她。但他对一个女人的这种惊人变化感到惊讶、困惑，甚至是烦恼。他是如此敬重她，因为她在世俗层面上理性而有效的活动。他甚至曾经向她求婚，但她拒绝了，而是起草了一份共同生活的合同。萧伯纳读到这份文件时，举起双手喊道:“天哪，女人!”这比任何婚姻都糟糕。”无论他们多么亲密，他从来没有跟随她进入她的新哲学。

(讨巍な伯纳 （George Bernard Shaw，1856年7月26日－1950年11月2日），英国/爱尔兰剧作家和伦敦政治经济学院的联合创始人。早年靠写作音乐和文学评论谋生，后来因为写作戏剧而出名。萧伯纳一生写过超过60部戏剧，擅长以黑色幽默的形式来揭露社会问题。1926年因椤缸髌肪哂欣硐胫髁x和人道主x」而@1925年度的Z文W)

    Unlike Blavatsky who, to the later embarrassment of Theosophists,  smoked cigars incessantly, ate meat, uttered profanities, and often had  a biting tongue, Annie Besant adopted a strict Hindu code in her daily  life, including Indian dress and puja (purifying rituals of cleanliness).  Yet she never sought to impose her own convictions on anyone else. 

布拉瓦茨基不停地抽雪茄、吃肉、说粗话、经常咬人的舌头，这让后来的神智学家感到尴尬。与布拉瓦茨基不同，安妮・贝桑特在日常生活中严格遵守印度的准则，包括印度的服装和puja(净化清洁的仪式)。然而，她从未试图将自己的信念强加给任何人。

    Even when she became President of the Theosophical Society in 1907,  Theosophy did not become Annie's whole world, absorbed by it though  she was. Her great interest lay in the cause of Indian independence. The  time came when she deliberately set aside her occult life to again make  a place for her political one. She never lost those powers of oratory and  endurance that had come with years of frontline fighting for human  rights and a better social order. It would be difficult to find a person  in any era who so successfully tackled so many causes to improve the  human condition. 

即使她在1907年成为神智学会的主席，神智学也没有成为安妮的整个世界，尽管她被神智学所吸引。她的极大兴趣在于印度的独立事业。有一天，她故意把她的神秘生活放在一边，重新为她的政治生活腾出空间。她从未失去那些多年来为人权和更好的社会秩序而奋斗的前线所带来的演讲能力和耐力。在任何时代，都很难找到一个人如此成功地解决了如此多的问题，以改善人类的状况。

    While Annie Besant would always have certain revelations of her  own, as she became more occupied in her fight for Indian Home Rule  she allowed herself to be guided more strongly by Leadbeater's occult  knowledge and experiences with the Masters. In Leadbeater she found  a spiritual friend on whom she relied for many of her most crucial  decisions ⌒ those made on that supersensible region believed to exist  beyond the tangible world -the astral plane. 

虽然安妮・贝赞特总是有她自己的一些启示，但当她越来越忙于为印度地方自治而战时，她允许自己更强烈地受到利德比特(Leadbeater)的神秘知识和与大师的经验的指导。在利德比特身上，她找到了一位精神上的朋友，她依靠他做出了许多最重要的决定，这些决定都是在那个被认为存在于有形世界之外的超感官区域――星光层上做出的。

    Leadbeater, whether through occult means or through a keen intuitive  insight, had a talent for choosing young people of promise. Jinarajadasa,  who he believed to be the incarnation of his brother Gerald, was but the  first of these discoveries. Six years later, in 1907, Leadbeater made his  second find, one that would have grave consequences for the society  and many of its members, and above all for Annie Besant. This new  discovery would lift her to the heights of spiritual hope and expectation  and then usher her into old age, broken both in health and spirit. 

无论是通过神秘的手段，还是通过敏锐的直觉，利德比特都有一种选择有前途的年轻人的天赋。他相信吉纳拉贾达萨是他哥哥杰拉德的化身，这只是这些发现中的第一个。六年后的1907年，利德比特有了第二个发现，这个发现将对社会及其许多成员产生严重影响，尤其是对安妮・贝桑特。这个新发现将把她提升到精神希望和期望的高度，然后把她带入健康和精神都崩溃的老年。