
    The Vehicle 
    All our lives are rooted in a past; sometimes mysterious and half- forgotten, sometimes well chronicled with family pride. Among immi- grants there is usually, in the resettlement, a grafting on of the old  culture to the new. ?(r)Setting down roots' has been, until recently, a  widespread and respectable goal. My family were unusual in their  time for considering both respectability and roots inconsequential.  Yet they would have had to admit that for fifty years they allowed  a fourteen-acre piece of land with a house called Arya Vihara to draw  them into a fold and to be their fixed compass point. From here their  lives rotated around the world singly and together. I learned of their  childhoods from a series of anecdotes told to me by them and others,  but I never sensed that the past and from where they had come held  much importance for them. When I asked my mother where she felt  her real homeland was, she replied it had been many places ⌒ wherever  she was at the tume, that she didn't feel bound to a place. Neither did  my father. When I asked Krinsh this question, he replied, ?(r)homeless'.  To a degree I inherited from my adults this rootless philosophy, but  for the first twenty years of my life I looked on Arya Vihara as my  home. Now it is painful to return there, just as it may have been painful  for them to return to their first homes. Yet I still harboured a cer- tain curiosity about those places and the pasts that went with them. 

我们所有的生活都植根于过去;有时是神秘的，半被遗忘的，有时是家族骄傲的记录。在移民安置中，通常有一种将旧文化嫁接到新文化上的做法。直到最近，“扎根”一直是一个广泛和值得尊敬的目标。我的家人在他们那个时代是不寻常的，他们认为体面和出身都是无关紧要的。然而，他们不得不承认，五十年来，他们让一块十四英亩的土地和一座叫艾莉亚维哈拉的房子把他们拉进了一个圈子，成为他们固定的罗盘点。从这里开始，他们的生活在世界各地旋转，单独或一起。我从他们和其他人告诉我的一系列轶事中了解到他们的童年，但我从未意识到他们的过去和他们来自哪里对他们有多重要。当我问母亲，她觉得自己真正的家乡在哪里时，她回答说，她曾经去过很多地方，无论她当时在哪里，她都没有被束缚在一个地方。我父亲也不知道。当我问Krinsh这个问题时，他回答说:“无家可归。”在某种程度上，我从我的成年人那里继承了这种无根的哲学，但在我生命的头二十年里，我把艾莉亚维哈拉当作我的家。现在回到那里是痛苦的，就像他们回到第一个家可能是痛苦的一样。然而，我仍然对那些地方和与之相关的过去怀有某种好奇心。

    Five days before he died I saw the house where Krinsh was born.  We were driving across South India, my husband, son and I, on the  main trunk road between Bangalore and Madras. It was a spontaneous  and unscheduled detour, for I had seen a small dot ⌒ Madanapalle - on the map. The pavement of this secondary road soon gave way  to dust and gravel. Still we went on, drawn by an unlikely quest  for the house in which Krinsh had lived ninety years before, and  then drawn by the increasing beauty of the countryside, the jade  green of newly planted rice, water buffaloes slowly tilling rocky  fields, an isolated thatched-roof mud cottage. In the distance, as though scattered by a gigantic hand, lay the most ancient rocks in the  world, or so I had always heard. 

克(Krinsh)去世前五天，我看到了他出生的房子。我和丈夫、儿子开车穿过南印度，行驶在班加罗尔和马德拉斯之间的主干道上。这是一次自发的、计划外的绕道，因为我在地图上看到了一个小点――Madanapalle。这条辅路的路面不久就被尘土和砾石所覆盖。我们还是继续往前走，先是去寻找克九十年前住过的那所房子，然后又被乡间越来越美丽的景色所吸引，新种的水稻翠绿如玉，水牛慢慢地在岩石地里翻耕，还有一座孤零零的茅草屋顶的泥屋。在远处，仿佛有一只巨大的手把它们分散开来，那是世界上最古老的岩石，至少我一直是这么听说的。

    Near these he had been born in 1895: Jiddu Krishnamurti, the eighth- born son of a high-caste Shaivite Brahmin, Telegu-speaking family, in  the town of Madanapalle, Andhra Pradesh, South India. Lord Krishna,  according to legend, had been the eighth-born son. Traditionally in  India the eighth-born son is called Krishna. 

1895年，他出生在这附近。他叫吉杜・克里希那穆提，是印度南部安得拉邦马达纳帕勒镇一个讲泰古语的高种姓婆罗门家庭的第八个儿子。根据传说，奎师那是第八个出生的儿子。传统上，在印度，第八个出生的儿子被称为克里希纳。

    From his earliest years, according to his own accounts, Krishna was  vague to the point of appearing moronic. I grew up on his stories of  being beaten at school for inattentiveness and for failing to learn his  lessons. At home, too, he had difficulty in performing the simplest task  correctly. But while his mother was alive, his life was relatively happy.  She had a deep love for him. According to Rukmini Arundale, whose  family and Krishna's were close friends and neighbours, his mother  also believed that this son was destined to be a great person and to  have an extraordinary life. She was so certain of this, even before he  was born, that breaking orthodox rules, she insisted on giving birth to  Krishna in the puja room, a place traditionally reserved for prayer and  meditation. 

根据克里希纳自己的描述，从他早年开始，克里希纳就含糊其词，显得像个白痴。我是听着他的故事长大的，他说他在学校里因为注意力不集中和不学习功课而被打。在家里，他也很难正确地完成最简单的任务。但在他母亲在世的时候，他的生活相对幸福。她深爱着他。Rukmini Arundale的家人和克的家人是亲密的朋友和邻居，据Rukmini Arundale说，他的母亲也相信这个儿子注定会成为一个伟大的人，拥有非凡的生活。甚至在克里希纳出生之前，她就非常确信这一点，以至于打破了传统的规矩，坚持在礼拜室生下克里希纳，这是一个传统上用来祈祷和冥想的地方。

    I find Krishna's later assertions that he had no memory of his early  years hard to believe in the face of so many vividly recounted childhood  tales. He would say that they were not from his own memory but were  based on what others had told him later. There is no doubt in my mind,  however, that Krinsh remembered his mother and his love for her. He  used to tell me how, in conventional Brahmin fashion, he kissed the  hem of her sari when he greeted her every morning. The very mention  of his mother evoked a noticeable depth of emotion in him that moved  me as a child. Whatever scant youthful happiness he experienced was  related to her. She seems to have had the gentle and loving nature of  the model Indian mother, who would replace discipline with love and  attention. 

面对如此多生动的童年故事，我发现克里希纳后来声称自己不记得早年生活的说法很难让人相信。他会说这些不是他自己的记忆，而是根据别人后来告诉他的。然而，在我心中，毫无疑问，克记得他的母亲和他对她的爱。他曾经告诉我，他每天早上问候她时，都以传统的婆罗门方式亲吻她纱丽的下摆。只要一提到他的母亲，他就会产生一种明显的情感，这种情感使我小时候深受感动。他所经历的那一点点青春的幸福，都与她有关。她似乎拥有印度模范母亲的温柔和慈爱的天性，她会用爱和关注取代纪律。

    When speaking of his father Narayamah, Krinsh did not display the  same emotional warmth. I heard how Narayaniah worked under the  British administration as a revenue collector. Krinsh did not seem  particularly proud of his father's profession. And in spite of this stable  employment, the family was not well off, though not impoverished.  Narayaniah was transferred frequently and had to move his family with  him. Only six of the eleven children survived to early adolescence. While  staying in one town, Cudappah, a bad malarial area, young Krishna,  at the age of two, contracted this disease. He would suffer recurring  symptoms for many years. 

当谈到他的父亲纳拉亚玛(Narayamah)时，克(Krinsh)没有表现出同样的情感温暖。我听说Narayaniah是如何在英国政府下担任收税员的。克似乎并不为他父亲的职业感到特别自豪。尽管有了这份稳定的工作，这个家庭虽然不贫穷，但并不富裕。Narayaniah经常被调动，他的家人也要跟着他一起调动。11个孩子中只有6个活到了青春期早期。当他住在一个叫库达帕的城镇时，一个疟疾高发区，年轻的克里希纳在两岁的时候感染了这种疾病。他的症状会反复发作多年。
 
                   
 
    Although Narayaniah had become a Theosophist before Krishna's  birth, the usual orthodox Hindu rituals were adhered to. Krinsh  recounted with a certain pride how he underwent the sacred thread  ceremony when he was six. Bathed and in all new clothing, he sat on  his father's knee while his mother guided his finger to trace the word  AUM in grains of rice on a silver tray. The priest chanted mantrams.  The family drove on a cart drawn by white bullocks with brightly  painted horns to the temple. Here they prayed for his good future.  Then they proceeded to the school where his intellectual training was  officially entrusted to the schoolmaster. In Hindu tradition, this day  marked the beginning of Krishna's real birth into the world. It was  also the beginning of his difficulties. Discipline begins in school. There  the child, having experienced his sacred thread ceremony, is prepared  for the harsh realities of life. Krinsh suffered more than most children in  school, for he could not learn or concentrate. When he failed to answer  the questions, he was sent out on the porch, where he would often stand  forgotten for the rest of the day. He might have stayed there all night  too, in a vacant trance, if his little brother Nitya had not remembered  to take him home. Krinsh was frequently caned. He would forget his  books and slate and, when he had not forgotten them, would sometimes  offer them to a poorer child who had none. This generosity only earned  him another caning. 

尽管Narayaniah在克里希纳出生之前就已经成为了一名神智学者，但人们仍然遵循着通常的正统印度教仪式。克带着几分自豪讲述了他六岁时如何经历了神圣的丝线仪式。他洗了澡，穿上了新衣服，坐在父亲的膝盖上，母亲引导他的手指在银盘上的米粒中寻找AUM这个词。牧师吟诵祷文。一家人坐着一辆由角涂得鲜艳的白牛拉着的马车去寺庙。他们在这里为他的美好未来祈祷。然后他们去了学校，在那里，他的智力训练正式委托给校长。在印度教传统中，这一天标志着奎师那真正降生到这个世界的开始。这也是他的困难的开始。纪律从学校开始。在那里，孩子经历了神圣的丝线仪式，准备好面对残酷的现实生活。在学校里，克比大多数孩子更痛苦，因为他不能学习，也不能集中注意力。当他回答不出问题时，他就被送到门廊上，在那里，他常常被遗忘一整天。要不是他的小弟弟尼提亚记得带他回家，他可能也会在那儿呆上一整夜，恍恍惚惚的。克经常被鞭打。他会忘记他的书和石板，当他没有忘记的时候，他有时会把它们送给一个没有的穷孩子。这种慷慨只换来他又挨了一顿鞭子。

    Krinsh was always conscious of being a high-caste Brahmin. Often  he told me of the meditation sessions every morning in his house, when  he had to sit without moving a muscle or his ear would be pinched by his  father. He believed that such training, plus centuries of Brahmin genes,  had developed a superior intelligence in Brahmins, an opinion that my  American side of the family found undemocratic. It was obvious that  he esteemed his birthright of Brahmin fastidiousness. He recalled his  father's overseer, an Englishman, who occasionally dropped by for tea,  thinking that he was honouring the family with his visits. The overseer  could not have suspected that on his departure every utensil he had used  had to be broken and discarded and the whole house scoured from floor  to ceiling, so badly was it polluted by the presence of this foreigner. 
克一直意识到自己是一个高种姓的婆罗门。他经常告诉我，每天早上在他家里的冥想课上，他必须一动不动地坐着，否则他的耳朵就会被他父亲捏。他相信这样的训练，加上几个世纪的婆罗门基因，已经使婆罗门人拥有了更高的智力，我的美国家人认为这种观点是不民主的。很明显，他尊重他与生俱来的婆罗门挑剔的权利。他回忆起他父亲的监工，一个英国人，他偶尔来喝杯茶，认为他的来访是对这个家族的尊重。监工不可能想到，在他离开的时候，他用过的每件器具都必须被打碎和丢弃，整个房子从地板到天花板都被这个外国人玷污得如此严重。

    Krinsh often told me these stories, but he never made much of  having seen ghosts. Perhaps he did not want to fill my mind with  such immaterial concepts. 
    Krishna was close to his older sister. The first tragedy of his life was  her early death. One day he became alarmed when he saw his mother  conversing in the garden with someone he could not see. His mother  explained that it was his dead sister and if he so wished he could see her. At first he laughed and then, perhaps to please his mother, he said  he could see his sister too. No one else in the family had this ability. His  mother also claimed to see auras. Before long the little boy followed her  example in this as well. It was natural that he should exhibit a childish  effort to please his mother by sharing her psychic disposition. Krishna  was born into and grew up in an environment not generally sceptical  of the occult or mystical. His Hindu family and his later Theosophical  ?(r)family' were alike in this. 

克经常给我讲这些故事，但他从来没有把见过鬼当回事。也许他不想让这种非物质的概念填满我的脑海。克里希纳与他的姐姐关系很好。他人生的第一个悲剧是她的早逝。一天，当他看到母亲在花园里和一个他看不见的人交谈时，他开始惊慌起来。他的母亲解释说，那是他死去的姐姐，如果他愿意，他可以见到她。起初他笑了，然后，也许是为了取悦他的母亲，他说他也可以去看他的姐姐。家里没有其他人有这种能力。他的母亲也声称看到了光环。不久，小男孩也学了她的样。很自然，他会表现出孩子气的努力，通过分享母亲的精神气质来取悦她。克出生并成长在一个通常不怀疑神秘或神秘的环境中。他的印度教家庭和他后来的通神论家庭在这一点上是相似的。

    Later he claimed that none of these things, including the canings, had  conditioned him at all or left any marks on his mind. His memory or lack  of it is one of the most complex and elusive aspects of his personality.  It is also basic to the understanding, not only of his observations on  conditioning, consciousness and freedom, but of his own actions. 
    In 1905, when Krishna was ten, his mother died and what had been  a difficult existence now became a grim one. The little boys were left  in the care of an already overworked father. Krishna would see his  mother after her death, hear the sound of her bangles following him  to school, and try to grasp her sari as she climbed the stairs, only to  have the apparition vanish when she reached the top. Her loss would  haunt him for many years if not for all of his life. 

后来他声称，这些事情，包括鞭刑在内，都没有影响到他，也没有在他的思想上留下任何痕迹。他的记忆力是他性格中最复杂、最难以捉摸的方面之一。这也是理解的基础，不仅是理解他对制约、意识和自由的观察，也是理解他自己行为的基础。
1905年，克里希纳10岁的时候，他的母亲去世了，原本艰难的生活现在变得严酷起来。小男孩们由一个已经劳累过度的父亲照料。克里希纳会在母亲死后看到她，听到她手镯跟着他去上学的声音，在她爬楼梯时试图抓住她的纱丽，但当她到达顶部时，幽灵却消失了。她的离去即使不会困扰他一生，也会困扰他许多年。

    Eighty years later I looked up at those stairs. We had found the house  through a series of inquiries starting at alocal Rotary Club. From there we  had been directed to a textile merchant who was an old friend of Krinsh's  family. ?(r)My father sat on the same school bench with Krishnamurti,?± he  told us. 
    The house stood in a quiet narrow street in the centre of the bustling  town. It had recently been sold and was now vacant and padlocked. The  stairs to the upper rooms opened directly on to the street. The original  thatched roof was replaced and the house had been improved, but a  small cistern in front still stood filled with water. I saw no ghosts, but  had a strange and unhappy premonition that this inadvertent pilgrimage  to his birthplace signified my final farewell to Krinsh. 

80年后，我抬头看着那些楼梯。我们从当地的扶轮社开始，经过一系列的询问才找到了这所房子。从那里我们被引见到一个纺织商，他是克家的老朋友。我父亲坐在克里希那穆提坐过的学校长凳上。他告诉我们。这所房子坐落在熙熙攘攘的城镇中心一条安静的狭窄街道上。它最近刚卖出去，现在空着，而且上了锁。通往上层房间的楼梯直接对着街道。原来的茅草屋顶被换掉了，房子也得到了改善，但前面的一个小蓄水池仍然装满了水。我没有看见鬼，但有一种奇怪而不愉快的预感:这次无意中去他出生地的朝圣，意味着我与克的最后告别。

    The Theosophical headquarters at Adyar, which stand in 300 acres, are  still an oasis. Beyond the guarded gates lies the tranquil beauty of another  age. Except for a few additional buildings, little has changed since the  first decade of this century. The now polluted Adyar river still lows  along one boundary, the beach still stretches along another. A tree-lined  road winds gracefully through groves of palms and exotic gardens, past  the second largest banyan tree in India, to Leadbeater Chambers, three 
 storey living quarters built during my father's boyhood. Individual  members have added private dwellings here and there and passed on,  leaving these houses to the society. It is necessary when walking at night  to carry a flashlight and beat on wood as a precaution against cobras.  The winter climate is never chilly and in summer the intemperate heat  is modified by the cool green landscape and the breezes from the sea. 

Adyar的神智学总部占地300英亩，仍然是一片绿洲。在守卫森严的大门之外，是另一个时代的宁静之美。自本世纪头十年以来，除了几座新建筑外，几乎没有什么变化。现在被污染的阿德亚尔河仍然沿着一条边界低洼，海滩仍然沿着另一条边界延伸。一条绿树成荫的道路优雅地蜿蜒穿过棕榈树和异国情调的花园，经过印度第二大的榕树，来到第三大的利德比特小屋，
我父亲童年时期建造的多层住宅。个人成员在这里和那里建造了私人住宅，然后离开，把这些房子留给社会。在夜间行走时，携带手电筒和敲打木头是预防眼镜蛇的必要措施。冬天的气候从不寒冷，而在夏天，凉爽的绿色景观和海风缓和了不温不火的炎热。

    When Narayaniah retired in 1907, his pension could barely support  the four boys still under his roof. He attempted to get a post in any  capacity at Adyar in exchange for food and lodging. Mrs Besant was  averse to having the distraction of children on the compound and  turned down the request. But this did not discourage Narayaniah,  who persisted with his appeals and was finally given work, but not  living quarters, in the compound. He had to settle his family in a  shabby little cottage outside the gates. The three-mile walk across the  river to school in the Madras suburb of Mylapore and the insanitary  conditions of their house were not much of an improvement for the  little boys. Nevertheless, the proximity to the Theosophical oasis was  to bring about a major change. 
当Narayaniah在1907年退休时，他的退休金几乎不能养活他家里的四个孩子。他试图在Adyar谋得一个职位，以换取食宿。贝赞特夫人不愿意让孩子们在院子里分散注意力，于是拒绝了这个要求。但这并没有阻止Narayaniah，他坚持他的诉求，最终得到了工作，但没有住在院子里。他不得不把他的家人安顿在大门外一间破旧的小屋里。在马德拉斯郊区的迈拉波尔上学，他们要走三英里的路，家里的卫生条件也没有多大改善。然而，神智学绿洲的临近带来了一个重大的变化。

    In the four years before Krishna's arrival at Adyar, Leadbeater had  won high acclaim for his American lecture tour, only to fall from  grace due to a charge of moral misconduct. This put a strain on  Leadbeater's friendship with Mrs Besant and forced his resignation,  under pressure, from the society. Today it seems likely he was a  victim of his times, for he believed the pressure of sexuality on young  boys and girls was increased by ignoring the subject and refusing to  talk about it. He objected to the orthodox view that thoughts do not  matter as long as they do not become overt, and he wrote explicitly  about the ameliorating effects of masturbation in ridding the mind of  such thoughts. He felt that not to do so could lead to more serious  consequences, quoting St Paul that it 1s best to remain celibate but  it is better to marry than to burn. Leadbeater concluded in his best  style that the ?(r)average doctor cannot see the horrible astral effects of  perpetual desire'. 

在克里希纳抵达阿迪亚之前的四年里，利德比特在美国的巡回演讲赢得了很高的赞誉，但却因道德不端而遭到指控。这使利德比特与贝赞特夫人的友谊变得紧张，并迫使他在社会的压力下辞职。今天看来，他很可能是那个时代的受害者，因为他认为，忽视这个话题和拒绝谈论这个话题，会增加年轻男孩和女孩的性压力。他反对正统的观点，即只要思想不公开，它们就无关紧要，他明确地写了手淫在消除这种思想方面的改善作用。他认为，如果不这样做，可能会导致更严重的后果。他引用了圣保罗的话:“保持独身是最好的，但结婚比燃烧好。”利德比特以他最好的风格总结道:“一般的医生看不到永恒欲望所带来的可怕的星体效应。”

    ?(r)It is better to marry than to burn.?± How often I had heard Krinsh 
    mutter that in some vague moment to no one in particular. It would 
    be many years before [ realized the significance it had for him. 
    Mrs Besant, liberal as she was on other fronts, was torn between 
    Victorian shock at Leadbeater's views and her feelings of loyalty to an 
    old friend. The same wave of confusion was felt throughout the society. 
    Some members did remain loyal to him, like Jinarajadasa, who asserted 
    that he had never in all his years of closeness to Leadbeater encountered  the slightest impropriety. The pressure against Leadbeater was so strong,  however, that even Jinarajadasa had to resign temporarily. 

与其燃烧，不如结婚。我经常听到克的声音
在某个模糊的时刻，对非特定的人喃喃自语。它将
多年以后他才意识到这件事对他的重要性。
贝赞特夫人虽然在其他方面很开明，但她却左右为难：
维多利亚时代对利德比特的观点的震惊 和 她对一个老朋友的忠诚情感。
整个社会都感到了同样的困惑。
一些成员仍然忠于他，就像Jinarajadasa，他断言
他和利德比特在一起这么多年，从来没有遇到过丝毫不得体的事。然而，针对利德比特的压力如此之大，以至于就连Jinarajadasa也不得不暂时辞职。

    When Mrs Besant became President of the Theosophical Society in  1907, she gradually warmed to Leadbeater again. She even took up  cudgels in his defence, stating that he had been wronged by her and  the society. Leadbeater returned to Adyar, where he confined himself  for the time being to occult investigations into the earth's past and the  past lives of those upon it. 
    If Mrs Besant had expressed doubts about his sexual theories, she  had none whatever about his occult reliability. She continued to accept  without question the messages and instructions that he transmitted to  her from the Masters. 

当贝赞特夫人在1907年成为神智学会主席时，她又逐渐对利德比特产生了好感。她甚至拿起棍棒为他辩护，说他被她和社会冤枉了。利德比特回到了阿迪亚，在那里他暂时把自己局限于对地球的过去和地球上那些人的过去的神秘调查。
如果贝赞特夫人对他的性理论表示怀疑，那么她对他神秘知识的可靠性则毫无疑问。她继续毫无疑问地接受他从大师那里传递给她的信息和指示。

    Blavatsky had quite emphatically denied the coming ofa new world  teacher in the near future, writing that: 
    No master of Wisdom from the East will himself appear or send 
    anyone to Europe or America . . . [at least] untl the year 1975 . . . 
    He will appear as Maitreya Buddha the last of the Avatars and 
    Buddhas, in the seventh Race. Only it is not in the Kali Yug, our 
    present terrifically materialistic age of Darkness, the ?(r)Black Age', that 
    a new Savior of Humanity can ever appear.! 

布拉瓦茨基断然否认在不久的将来会出现新的世界教师，她写道:
东方的智慧大师不会亲自出现或派人来
有人去欧洲或美国吗?(至少)到1975年……
他将以弥勒佛的身份出现最后一个化身佛，
在第七种族。只是它不在卡利Yug里，
我们现在是可怕的物质主义的黑暗时代，
“黑色时代”人类的新救世主就会出现!

    She also stated emphatically: ?°With the advent of Theosophy the Messiah  craze has surely had its day and seen its doom.'2 
    In this she was mistaken. The idea of an imminent incarnation of the  Lord Maitreya as world teacher was definitely in the air, at least for Mrs  Besant and Leadbeater who, despite Blavatsky's clear pronouncement,  set out to find the proper vehicle for the new incarnation. 
她还强调说:“随着神智学的出现，弥赛亚狂热肯定有了它的日子，也看到了它的末日。
在这一点上，她错了。弥勒菩萨即将化身为世界导师的想法肯定是存在的，至少对贝赞特夫人和利德比特来说是这样，他们不听布拉瓦茨基的明确声明，开始为新的化身寻找合适的载体。

    It had become a habit for Krishna and his younger brother Nitya,  from whom he was inseparable, to stop at the beach on their way  home from school in the hot summer evenings. Here they would  shyly watch a group of young Theosophists cavorting in the waves.  One day Leadbeater happened to notice Krishna. He later said that  he had been struck by the unusually pure and generous nature of the  boy, as revealed in his aura. Leadbeater concluded from this initial  impression, that Krishna might prove to be the vehicle that he believed  the Masters were directing him to find. Before long he stated he had  been instructed by the Master Kuthumi to train this boy. There were  those around Adyar who found this choice very surprising. One young Theosophical scholar, Ernest Wood, who had been helping Krishna with  his homework, found him particularly dimwitted. Early descriptions  of Krishna and even his own later descriptions of himself evoke a  scrawny, dirty, cough-racked, lice-ridden, crooked-toothed boy with  rickety legs. 

在炎热的夏日夜晚，克里希纳和他的弟弟尼提亚在放学回家的路上，经常在海滩停下来，这已经成为他们的习惯。在这里，他们会害羞地看着一群年轻的神智学者在海浪中嬉戏。有一天，利德比特碰巧注意到了克里希纳。他后来说，他被这个男孩异乎寻常的纯洁和慷慨的天性所打动，就像他的光环所揭示的那样。利德比特从这个最初的印象中得出结论，克里希纳可能被证明是他相信大师们指示他去寻找的载体。不久之后，他说他受了库图米大师的指示来训练这个男孩。阿迪亚周围的人发现这个选择非常令人惊讶。一位年轻的神智学者欧内斯特・伍德(Ernest Wood)一直在帮助克里希纳做作业，他发现他特别愚蠢。对克里希纳的早期描述，甚至他自己后来对自己的描述，都让人联想到一个骨瘦如柴、脏兮兮、咳嗽不止、满身虱子、牙齿歪歪扭扭、双腿摇摇晃晃的男孩。

    The younger brother, Nitya, who was alert, charming, and easy  to teach, might have seemed a better candidate. But for all Krishna's  unpromising appearance, Leadbeater became more and more certain  that this was the vehicle for whom he had been waiting. Meanwhile  Mrs Besant, unaware of Leadbeater's find, had dispatched to Adyar  from the United States Hubert Van Hook, a young American whom  she believed to be a promising candidate for the vehicle of the world  teacher. Hubert arrived in Adyar with his mother in November, a few  weeks before Mrs Besant's return. It must have been a considerable  shock for Hubert to find that he had already been upstaged by a  rather scrawny young Indian. Nevertheless, the two Indian brothers  and Hubert joined together in their lessons. For some time Hubert and  Nitya were to be Krishna's only youthful companions. The supplanting  of Hubert, however, would not be forgotten by the Van Hooks. In the  future their cry of immoral conduct would be added to yet more charges  against Leadbeater. 

弟弟尼提亚机敏、迷人、好学，似乎是更好的人选。尽管克里希纳看起来毫无希望，但利德比特越来越确信，这就是他一直在等待的那个载体。与此同时，贝赞特夫人并不知道利德比特的发现，她从美国派遣了休伯特・范・胡克到阿迪亚，她认为这位年轻的美国人很有希望成为世界教师的载体。去年11月，休伯特和他的母亲来到阿迪亚，比贝赞特夫人回来早了几个星期。当休伯特发现自己的风头已经被一个骨瘦如柴的年轻印度人抢去时，他一定相当震惊。尽管如此，这两个印度兄弟和休伯特还是在他们的课程上走到了一起。有一段时间，休伯特和尼提亚是克里希纳仅有的年轻同伴。然而，休伯特的被替代不会被范・胡克斯夫妇忘记。后来，他们对利德比特不道德行为的控诉将被加到对他的更多指控中。

    Besides nurturing Krishna's astral body Leadbeater had the even more  difficult task of nurturing his physical body and mind, both of which  appeared to be below normal development for his age. This in no way  deterred Leadbeater, who would continue for a few more years to be  convinced that he had chosen correctly. He had soon convinced Mrs  Besant too. Both Krishna and Nitya were removed from their father's  house, and from the school where Krishna had continued to receive cruel  treatment. In fact, they were removed altogether from their family circle,  never to return. 

除了培育克里希纳的星体躯体，利德比特还有一项更艰巨的任务，那就是培育克里希纳的身体和心灵，这两者似乎都低于他这个年龄的正常发育水平。这丝毫没有阻止利德比特，在接下来的几年里，他一直坚信自己的选择是正确的。他很快也说服了贝赞特夫人。克里希纳和尼提亚都被赶出了父亲的家，也被赶出了克里希纳继续受到残酷对待的学校。事实上，他们完全被赶出了自己的家庭圈子，再也没有回来。

    Leadbeater had been spending years working out and tabulating the  past lives of people, important and unimportant, based on an occult  source of knowledge which was evidently only available to him. He  now began research on the past lives of Krishna (who was identified  for this purpose as Alcyone). The thirty lives of Alcyone took up two  volumes. Leadbeater's charts involved hundreds of people all related to  each other through thirty incarnations. What would become of utmost  importance in the present incarnation of these people was their previous  relationship to Alcyone. One can imagine a near epidemic of spiritual  pride and jostling when Leadbeater published his charts. Shiva Rao,  then a young teacher at Central Hindu College in Benares who would have a long future with Krishna, assisted Leadbeater in these tabulations.  He later commented that, while it would be impossible to prove that  they had a genuinely clairvoyant origin, the complex interweaving of  so many thousands of detailed family connections through so many  lives, without error, was a mental feat even more difficult to explain. 

多年来，利德比特一直在根据一种显然只有他才能掌握的神秘知识，把重要的和不重要的人的前世整理成表格。他现在开始研究克里希纳的前世(为此目的，他被确定为Alcyone)。Alcyone的三十个生命占了两卷书。利德比特的图表涉及数百人，他们通过30个化身相互关联。在这些人现在的化身中，最重要的是他们以前与Alcyone的关系。可以想象，当利德比特发表他的图表时，精神上的骄傲和竞争几乎是流行病。希瓦・拉奥(Shiva Rao)当时是贝拿勒斯中央印度教学院(Central Hindu College)的一名年轻教师，后来与克里希纳有了很长的未来，她协助利德比特制作了这些表格。他后来评论说，虽然不可能证明它们真的具有天眼通的起源，但在如此多的生命中，如此多的详细的家庭关系复杂地交织在一起，没有错误，这是一种精神上的壮举，更难解释。

    Leadbeater had his own spiritual evolutionary plan in which there  are ten different levels or initiations to pass. To reach even the fourth  initiation or Arhat level is more than most individuals can expect in one  lifetime. To hasten the naturally slow process of evolution, one may  become a pupil ofa Master and be placed on probation. Masters have  passed the fifth initiation. After the sixth initiation individuals may pass  out of the earthly orbit altogether, or they may remain as members of the  occult hierarchy, still concerned with governing the inner plane. Above  the sixth level are the three offices that administer the occult world: the  Mahachohan, the Bodhisattva and the Manu. Alone, on the eighth level is  the Buddha. Above the Buddha is the Lord of the World. At the very  top, on the tenth level, resides the Trinity of the Logos. 

利德比特有他自己的精神进化计划，其中有十个不同的层次或启蒙要通过。即使达到第四阶或罗汉层次，也是大多数人一生无法企及的。为了加速自然缓慢的进化过程，一个人可能会成为一位大师的学生，并被置于试用期。大师们已经通过了第五次印心。在第六次提升之后，个人可能会完全离开地球轨道，或者他们可能仍然作为神秘等级的成员，仍然关心控制内在层面。第六层以上是管理神秘世界的三个要职:摩诃汉、菩萨和摩奴。在第八层的是佛陀。佛的上方是世界之主。在最顶端，在第十层，居住着逻各斯的三位一体。

    Gautama Buddha had once held the office of the Bodhisattva, but no  longer. It was now occupied by the Lord Maitreya, who had incarnated  into Jesus, known during that period as the Christ. The population of  the earth has passed through a series of root and sub-root races, some  overlapping through successive periods. The present stage i1s the Aryan  or Teutonic, whose characteristics are largely commercial, scientific and  individualistic. This stage will soon evolve into the Austral/American or  sixth sub-root race, which will be intuitive and co-operative in nature.  To help in the emergence of this new race, the Lord Maitreya, whom  Leadbeater envisioned with long red-gold hair and beard and violet eyes,  would soon reincarnate into the body of one of his pupils ⌒ hopefully  into Krishnamurti. 

释迦牟尼曾经担任过菩萨的职务，但现在不再担任了。它现在被弥勒所占据，他化身为耶稣，在那个时期被称为基督。地球的人口已经经历了一系列的根和亚根种族，其中一些在连续的时期重叠。目前的阶段是雅利安人或条顿人，其特点主要是商业、科学和个人主义。这个阶段将很快演变成Austral/American或第六个亚根种族，这将是直觉和合作的性质。为了帮助这个新种族的出现，利德比特设想的长着红金色头发、胡子和紫罗兰色眼睛的弥勒主，将很快转世到他的一个学生的身体里，希望是克里希那穆提。

    It was no wonder that the preparations for this imminent incarnation  would cause such a stir in the Theosophical world. Word spread rapidly  and many eyes and ears were focused on Leadbeater and the two little  Indian boys he had found on the Adyar beach. Leadbeater was fully  conscious, however, that first there must be many trials along ?(r)the  Path' that could result in failure; Krishna was not to be taken as a final  choice. The course of preparation was all important and there would  be signs to watch along the way that would verify or discredit the  candidate. 

毫无疑问，这个即将到来的化身的准备工作将在神智学世界引起如此大的轰动。消息迅速传开，许多人的目光和耳朵都集中在利德比特和他在阿迪亚海滩上发现的两个小印度男孩身上。然而，利德比特完全意识到，首先，在“道路”上必须有许多可能导致失败的试验;克里希那不是最后的选择。准备过程非常重要，在准备过程中会有一些迹象值得注意，这些迹象可能会证实或怀疑候选人。

    To begin with, Leadbeater spent many hours reading to Krishna about  his former lives. But as the boy knew very little English at that time, it  probably passed through his mind as cleanly as had his boring school  lessons. He would later describe himself as a sieve, absolutely untouched  and unconditioned by these ideas. 

首先，利德比特花了很多时间给克里希那读他前世的故事。但由于那个时候男孩对英语知之甚少，这可能就像他在枯燥的学校课程中一样清晰地掠过他的脑海。他后来形容自己是一个筛子，完全不受这些思想的影响和制约。

    For five months, while his body was left comfortably in bed, Krishna  was supposed to be making nightly astral journeys to the Master  Kuthumi's house in the Himalayas for instruction. He would spend  the following mornings, back at Adyar, painstakingly recording these  meetings in notes that would become his first book, At the Feet of the  Master. Several Theosophists later vouched that Krishna had written  these notes in his own words and that only the spelling and punctuation  had been corrected. Given the probable level of the boy's progress in  English, it seems likely that this was a slight exaggeration. Ernest  Wood, who had already expressed surprise at Leadbeater's choice of  candidate, noticed that the book was in Leadbeater's style and even had  some sentences remarkably similar to those in one of Leadbeater's own  books about to go to press. 

五个月来，当他的身体舒适地躺在床上时，克里希那应该每晚都去喜马拉雅山脉库图米大师的家进行星光旅行，接受指导。回到阿迪亚后的第二天早晨，他煞费苦心地把这些会议记录在笔记上，这些笔记后来成为他的第一本书《在大师的脚下》。几位神智学家后来担保，克里希那是用他自己的话写的这些笔记，只是拼写和标点被纠正了。考虑到这个男孩在英语方面可能取得的进步水平，这似乎有点夸张。欧内斯特・伍德已经对利德比特选择的候选人表示了惊讶，他注意到这本书是利德比特的风格，甚至有一些句子与利德比特自己即将出版的一本书中的句子惊人地相似。

    It is sometimes difficult to distinguish with certainty the boundaries  of the possible or to drive a straight course through the occult areas of  Theosophy. On one side are cries of hypnotism, and self-delusion and  on the other the claims made by those who believe implicitly in these  phenomena and whose lives proclaim them to be honest and reliable  individuals. For those who find it impossible to believe in the occult  happenings of the Theosophists, an explanation less complex than  hypnotism is that personalities as magnetic and powerful as Blavatsky's  and Leadbeater's (and as Krishna's would become) are able to create  an atmosphere in which the willing suspension of disbelief is over- whelming. 

有时很难确定地 区分可能的边界，或者在神智学的神秘领域中开辟一条笔直的道路。一边是催眠术和自我欺骗的呼声，另一边是那些暗中相信这些现象的人的主张，他们的生活表明他们是诚实可靠的人。对于那些觉得不可能相信神智学家的神秘事件的人来说，一个比催眠术简单的解释是，像布拉瓦茨基和利德比特这样具有吸引力和强大的人格(克里希纳也会变成这样)能够创造出一种氛围，在这种氛围中，自愿暂停怀疑是压倒一切的。

    Eventually Krishna would disavow all these claims made on his behalf.  They would be an embarrassment in his search for an independent  path to the truth. Then he would find for himself a neat way out of  that dilemma. In 1929 he would claim to remember nothing of his  earlier years. As a result he never needed to offend his benefactors  by denying the authenticity of that first little book, nor did he need to  claim responsibility for it. Where Blavatsky and Leadbeater may have  re-arranged their past to fit, more appropriately, their present, Krishna  chose to blank out his youth altogether. However, while Krishna  would later claim that he had been untouched by Theosophical ideas,  he retained certain concepts and imagery given him during this period  and would later incorporate them into his own teachings. 

最终，克里希纳否认了所有这些以他的名义提出的声明。这将使他在寻求一条通往真理的独立道路上感到尴尬。然后他会为自己找到一个巧妙的方法来摆脱这种困境。1929年，他声称自己对早年的一切都不记得了。因此，他不需要因为否认第一本小书的真实性而得罪他的恩人，他也不需要为它负责。布拉瓦茨基和利德比特可能已经重新安排了他们的过去，以更恰当地适应他们的现在，而克里希纳却选择把自己的青春完全抹去。然而，虽然克里希纳后来声称他没有受到神智学思想的影响，但他保留了在这一时期给予他的某些概念和意象，后来将它们纳入他自己的教诲中。

    Certainly, a key influence in Krishna's early training was Mrs Besant.  Her published talks on The Way of the Path must have been easily  accessible to him. In these she had described her version of the route of spiritual evolution. Mrs Beasant enumerated the first steps towards  probation, involving various requisites and tests that must be fulfilled.  After these preliminary steps were fulfilled, one might proceed toward  preparation for discipleship by attracting the notice of a Master for  guidance along the probationary path. One is not expected to perform  perfectly but to practise and attempt. Gradually learning to discriminate  between the real and the unreal, one becomes indifferent to worldly  objects. One learns control of the mind, senses and body, also tolerance  and endurance. One may now choose a short cut, leave the beaten track  and climb straight up the mountain. This entails paying in difficulties  what one has gained in time and drawing on oneself immediately  the whole karmic debt which might have been played out through  many lives. 

当然，对克里希纳早期训练有重要影响的是贝赞特夫人。她发表的关于正道之道的演讲对他来说一定很容易理解。在这些书中，她描述了她对精神进化之路的看法。贝赞特夫人列举了获得试用期的第一步，包括各种必须满足的条件和测试。在这些初步的步骤完成之后，一个人可以通过吸引一位师父的注意，来获得在试用的道路上指导，来进行门徒训练的准备。一个人不需要表现得完美，而需要练习和尝试。一个人逐渐学会分辨真假，就会对世间的事物漠不关心。一个人学习控制思想、感官和身体，还有宽容和耐力。人们现在可以选择一条捷径，离开人迹罕至的小路，径直上山。这就需要在困难中及时偿还你所获得的，并立即将可能在许多世中被完成的全部业力债务转嫁到自己身上。

    Before the second initiation one must be rid of three things: the illusion  of personal self, doubt and superstition, or that ?(r)reliance on external sectarian  rites and ceremonies for spiritual help' which are necessary only in the  lower stages to climb the ladder toward reality.

 在第二次启蒙之前，一个人必须摆脱三件事:个人自我的幻觉，怀疑和迷信，或者依赖外在的宗教仪式和仪式来获得精神帮助，这些只有在较低的阶段才能爬上通往现实的阶梯。

    As Krishna soon discovered, ?(r)the Path of Discipleship' was not always  easy. In the future he would chafe at the bit quite often until he found his  own short cut to the top. For the present, the nightly visits on the astral  plane to the Master Kuthumi, on which Leadbeater told Mrs Besant he  accompanied the boys, were not arduous. Leadbeater was soon able to  announce that Krishna had been placed on probation and was well on  the way to the next step on ?(r)the Path', acceptance by and close unity  with the Master. 

克里希纳很快就发现，“门徒之路”并不总是一帆风顺的。以后，他会经常感到恼火，直到他找到自己通往顶峰的捷径。目前，利德比特告诉贝赞特夫人，他陪着孩子们在星界层面上每晚拜访库图米大师，并不费力。利德比特很快就能宣布，克里希纳已被置于试用期，正顺利地走向正道的下一步，即被大师接受并与大师紧密团结。

    For a child who, initially, had been considered by some retarded,  Krishna began to make remarkable progress in those first months at  Adyar. He would retain his difficulty in learning, at least in certain  subjects, but he exhibited no difficulty then or in later life in learning  what he wanted to learn. 

对于一个最初被认为是智障的孩子来说，克里希纳在阿迪亚的头几个月里开始取得了显著的进步。他在学习上仍然有困难，至少在某些科目上是这样，但在当时或后来的生活中，他在学习他想学的东西方面没有表现出困难。

    Both brothers found their new surroundings a true paradise even with- out comparing them to their impoverished home and harsh schooldays.  They soon outgrew the intrinsic fear, from which young Indians often  suffered, of Europeans with their overbearing sense of superiority. 

两兄弟发现他们的新环境是一个真正的天堂，即使不去比较他们的贫困家庭和艰苦的学生时代。他们很快就摆脱了对欧洲人傲慢优越感的内在恐惧，这是年轻的印度人经常遭受的痛苦。

    At the age of fourteen, only eight months after being discovered by  Leadbeater (when he had known no English at all), with Leadbeater's  probable assistance, Krishna wrote affectionate and grammatical letters  to Mrs Besant. He saw her as a new mother and begged her to let him  address her as such. That warm and generous-hearted lady who had  fought so hard for the underprivileged must have been touched by the  motherless boy who thanked her for her kindness, for his bicycle, for the use of her room, in which the brothers slept when she was away.  To be removed from the mud-floor cottage outside the Adyar gates to  the quite magnificent two-storey stucco headquarters with its spacious  rooms and breezy verandas; to be nourished physically on the excellent  vegetarian food and nourished mentally by halfa dozen devoted young  tutors was indeed much to be thankful for. There was also the glorious  future for which Krishna was being prepared. 

克里希纳14岁时，在被利德比特发现后仅8个月(当时他根本不懂英语)，可能是在利德比特的帮助下，他给贝桑特太太写了几封情意绵绵、语法正确的信。他把她看作一个新妈妈，恳求她允许他这样称呼她。这位热心、慷慨的女士为弱势群体而奋斗，她一定会被这个失去母亲的男孩感动，因为他感谢她的好意，感谢他的自行车，感谢她在她不在的时候让他和弟弟睡在她的房间里。从阿迪亚大门外的泥地小屋搬到相当宏伟的两层灰泥总部，那里有宽敞的房间和微风吹拂的阳台;在美味的素食中得到身体的滋养，在六个热心的年轻导师的指导下得到精神的滋养，这确实是非常值得感谢的。克里希纳也在为光荣的未来做准备。

    A photograph, taken in 1910 on the roof of the ES building in  Adyar, prophetically records the emerging new Krishna. He faces his  little brother Nitya and Leadbeater, who has protectively placed a large  white hand on the younger boy's thin shoulder. The graceful curve of  Krishna's posture states his mother's expectations, instilled in him long  before being re-affirmed by Leadbeater. It asserts his self-confidence,  even arrogance, standing in opposition to his benefactor. 

一张摄于1910年在阿迪亚ES建筑屋顶上的照片预言地记录了正在出现的新克里希纳。他面对着他的弟弟尼提亚和利德比特，后者保护性地把一只白色的大手放在弟弟瘦削的肩膀上。克里希纳优雅的曲线姿势表达了他母亲的期望，在他被利德比特再次肯定之前很久就灌输给他。它表明了他的自信，甚至傲慢，站在他的恩人的对面。

    Krishna's later memories of Leadbeater, those that edged through his  wall of oblivion, were not at all warm. He used to tell me, as he had  often told others, how Leadbeater, having urged him repeatedly to  keep his mouth from hanging open, had one day jolted him with a  sharp sock on the chin. Krishna never held his mouth open again. Nor  did he ever forgive Leadbeater. Another time he and Nitya had asked  to have oatmeal for breakfast. As a result they were served nothing  else for the next few weeks. Krishna offered an even more graphic  example of Leadbeater's stern discipline. One day the two brothers  had been swimming in the as yet unpolluted river with Leadbeater.  It was getting late. Noticing an ominous dark spot, they avoided it  and swam to shore. They felt they had got away with this harmless  evasion. No sooner were they safely on the river bank, than Leadbeater  said, ?(r)Now we shall go back and swim through that spot.?± This view of  Leadbeater's severity seems unique to Krishna. According to my father  and mother and according to their recollection of Nitya's view, it was  quite out of character. This was corroborated by Rukmini, who told  me she could not imagine Leadbeater ever striking anyone. Yet as it was  of utmost importance to him to eradicate fear, it is possible that he felt  strong measures were necessary in the preparation of the vehicle. That  he did not succeed in this particular attempt will be seen. Fear would  remain an intrinsic part of Krishna's personality and would become  a basic factor in his later philosophy. His approach to the problem  would be diametrically opposed to Leadbeater's. Krinsh told me these  stories about Leadbeater many times. While he may have preferred to  claim that they were not his own memories but transmitted to him  by others, they seemed to me to be told with first-hand poignancy. 

克里希纳后来对利德比特的记忆，在他的遗忘之墙上隐约浮现，一点也不温暖。他过去常常告诉我，就像他经常告诉别人的那样，利德比特一再劝他不要张大嘴巴，有一天竟用一记尖锐的拳击砸了他的下巴。克里希纳再也没有张开他的嘴。他也从未原谅过利德比特。还有一次，他和尼提亚要求早餐吃燕麦片。结果，在接下来的几个星期里，他们没有别的东西吃。克里希纳提供了一个更生动的例子来说明利德比特的严厉纪律。一天，两兄弟和利德比特一起在一条尚未被污染的河里游泳。天色已晚。注意到一个不祥的黑点，他们避开它，游向岸边。他们觉得以这种无害的逃避他们已经逃脱了。他们刚安全上岸，利德比特就说:“现在我们要回去，游过那个地方。”这种对利德比特的严重性的看法似乎是克里希纳独有的。根据我的父母和他们对尼提亚的看法的回忆，这完全不符合他的性格。Rukmini证实了这一点，她告诉我，她无法想象利德比特会打任何人。然而，由于消除恐惧对他来说是最重要的，他可能觉得在准备这个载体时有必要采取强有力的措施。他这次特别的尝试没有成功，我们将会看到。恐惧仍然是克里希纳人格的内在部分，并将成为他后来哲学的一个基本因素。他处理这个问题的方法将与利德比特截然相反。克里希纳给我讲过很多次利德比特的故事。虽然他可能更愿意声称这些不是他自己的记忆，而是别人传递给他的，但在我看来，这些记忆似乎是用第一手的辛酸来讲述的。

    There was too much emotion, sometimes even a perceptible shudder,  when he spoke of Leadbeater, making it hard to believe that his own  recollections were no longer available to him. 

当他谈到利德比特的时候，情绪太激动了，有时甚至可以感觉到一阵颤抖，使人很难相信他自己的记忆已经不复存在了。

    Although the now demoted Hubert was allowed to play with Krishna  and Nitya, he was not allowed to touch any of Krishna's belongings.  Leadbeater believed that even inanimate objects could receive bad vibra- tions and pass these on to another. While this restriction may have been  hard on Hubert, who had been led to think he would be the candidate  for the vehicle, it did not seem to affect Krishna's generous nature. He  persisted throughout life in wanting to share his possessions, at least  with his favourites of the moment. 

虽然现在被淘汰的休伯特被允许与克里希纳和尼提亚一起玩，但他不被允许碰克里希纳的任何东西。利德比特认为，即使是无生命的物体也能接收到不良振动，并将其传递给另一个物体。虽然这一限制对休伯特来说可能很难，因为他一直认为自己会是载体的候选人，但这似乎并没有影响克里希纳慷慨的本性。他终其一生都坚持想要分享他的财产，至少是与他当时最喜欢的人分享。

    It is certain that from the time Krishna was taken into the inner fold  at Adyar both he and his brother Nitya were showered with every  intellectual, material and non-material benefit. Along with this went  a strict routine of exercise, cleanliness and personal grooming. As part  of the physical fitness programme, Krishna was encouraged to cycle.  According to Richard Balfour-Clark, one of the boys' tutors at Adyar,  whom I was fortunate to meet in 1973, Krishna showed considerable  prowess in cycling long distances. Leadbeater was determined to replace  Indian with European ideas of personal cleanliness. While Brahmins  found the English habit of soaking in one's own dirty bath water quite  revolting, Leadbeater disapproved of the Indian way of sloshing water  over the body while clad in a loin cloth, a procedure he considered inad- equate. Within two years the brothers had been sufficiently prepared,  in Mrs Besant's opinion, to make their European debut. 

可以肯定的是，自从克里希纳被带进阿迪亚的核心以来，他和他的兄弟尼提亚都获得了各种智力、物质和非物质的好处。随之而来的是严格的日常锻炼、清洁和个人打扮。作为身体健康计划的一部分，克里希纳被鼓励骑自行车。理查德・鲍尔弗-克拉克(Richard balforth - clark)是阿迪亚的一位男孩导师，我很幸运地在1973年遇到了他，据他说，克里希纳在长距离骑行方面表现出了相当大的能力。利德比特决心用欧洲人的个人清洁观念取代印度人的。婆罗门发现英国人用自己的脏洗澡水泡澡的习惯非常令人反感，而利德比特不赞成印度人裹着腰布往身上泼水的做法，他认为这种做法是不恰当的。在贝赞特夫人看来，不到两年，兄弟俩就做好了充分的准备，准备在欧洲首次亮相。

-------------

    In the spring of 1911 Krishna and Nitya accompanied Mrs Besant  to England, where they were greeted with a considerable fanfare by  Theosophists. Krishna's recently published Lives of Alcyone had preceded  them. Doors of the highest circles were thrown open to them, for there  were many wealthy and aristocratic Theosophists in that era. Among  these was a person who would be as close to Krishna as anyone during  his youth, a Lady Emily Lutyens. She was the daughter of the Earl of  Lytton, Viceroy of India, and the wife of Sir Edwin Lutyens, the  renowned architect who designed the government buildings of British  New Delhi. At the time Lady Emily met Krishna she was a recent  adherent of Theosophy. Like Mrs Besant, Lady Emily was drawn to  the increasingly handsome but still frail and motherless boy. Until her  death, nearly halfa century later, he addressed her as ?(r)Mum'. The chord  he struck in her was one he would strike in many women throughout  his life. 

1911年春天，克里希纳和尼提亚陪同贝赞特夫人去了英国，在那里他们受到了神通学家们的热烈欢迎。克里希纳最近出版的《Alcyone的生平》早于他们。最上层阶级的大门向他们敞开，因为在那个时代有许多富有和贵族的神智学者。在这些人中，有一个人是克里希纳年轻时最亲近的人，艾米丽・鲁琴斯(Emily Lutyens)女士。她是印度总督利顿伯爵的女儿，也是著名建筑师埃德温・鲁琴斯爵士的妻子，埃德温・鲁琴斯爵士设计了英属新德里的政府大楼。当艾米丽夫人遇见克里希纳时，她是神智学的新信徒。和贝赞特夫人一样，艾米丽夫人也被这个越来越英俊但依然虚弱、没有母亲的男孩所吸引。直到近半个世纪后她去世，他都称她为“妈妈”。他在她身上所引起的共鸣，也是他一生中在许多女人身上所引起的共鸣。

    Along with all the luxuries of life amid England's upper crust, Krishna, now only sixteen and Nitya three years younger, were sub- jected to a well-planned and rigorous anglicization. They had to endure  uncomfortable European shoes, expensively tailored suits, neckties and,  worst of all, food which for several years caused them severe indigestion.  As this diet had been prescribed by the Master Kuthumi (via Leadbeater),  no one would have dared to interfere with it. Years later Krinsh described  to me the discomforts of two young Brahmins transplanted to England.  He made clear his dislike of English cooking, his revulsion at the lack of  basic cleanliness ⌒ the butler who spat on the water glass to make it shine the young aristocrat who changed his collar but not his shirt. Krinsh  told stories too of life in public school, of the ice-covered water with  which they had to wash their faces in the mornings, of the appalling food  and finally of the bullying which he and Nitya terminated by a claim,  though sheer bluff, of knowing jujitsu. However, these schooldays did  not last long.  In 1912, the boys' father, Narayaniah, took action to have his sons  returned to his custody. Whether he was genuinely disturbed by the  rumours about Leadbeater and wanted them removed from his influence,  or whether he felt the original promise of furthering the boys' education  and opportunities had taken an undesirable turn, was never quite clear.  However, while the case was being fought in Madras, Krishna and Nitya  were safely sequestered in the idyllic town of Taormina on the island  of Sicily, well out of their father's grasp should the verdict fall in his  favour. 

在享受着英国上流社会的奢华生活的同时，年仅十六岁的克里希纳和比他小三岁的尼提亚也被迫接受了精心策划的严格的英国化教育。他们不得不忍受不舒服的欧洲鞋、昂贵的剪裁西装、领带，最糟糕的是，他们不得不忍受多年来导致严重消化不良的食物。由于这种饮食是由大师库图米(通过利德比特)规定的，没有人敢干涉它。多年以后，克里希纳向我描述了他们两个移居英国的年轻婆罗门的不舒服。他清楚地表达了他对英国烹饪的厌恶，他对缺乏基本清洁的厌恶――在水杯上吐口水使水杯发亮的管家，换衣领却不换衬衫的年轻贵族。克里希纳也讲了他在公立学校的生活，讲了他们早上必须用结冰的水洗脸，讲了可怕的食物，最后讲了他和尼提亚自称会柔术而结束的欺凌。然而，这些学生时代并没有持续多久。1912年，男孩的父亲纳拉亚尼亚(Narayaniah)采取行动，要求将儿子们交还给他。究竟是他真的被有关利德比特的谣言所困扰，想让这些谣言远离他的影响，还是他觉得原先许诺给孩子们提供进一步教育和机会的承诺已经发生了不愉快的转变，这一点一直不太清楚。然而，当案件在马德拉斯进行时，克里希纳和尼提亚被安全地隔离在西西里岛田园诗般的陶尔米纳小镇上，即使判决对他们的父亲有利，他们也不会被他们的父亲掌控。

    In spite of her brilliant defence arguments Mrs Besant lost the first  rounds in the Indian courts. But she won her appeal to the Privy  Council in London. This gave her the control she needed over her  wards to ensure Krishna the future she believed to be his destiny. She  was even awarded the court costs, but charitably declined to collect  from the defeated Narayaniah. Krishna was exultant and congratulated  her on this victory that would ensure his ?(r)marvellous future'. 

尽管贝赞特夫人在辩护中表现出色，但她在印度法院的第一轮诉讼中败诉。但她赢得了在伦敦枢密院的上诉。这给了她所需要的控制，以确保克里希纳的未来，她相信是他的命运。她甚至得到了诉讼费，但她婉拒了向战败的纳拉亚尼亚收取诉讼费的请求。克里希纳非常高兴，祝贺她这次胜利，这将确保他“美好的未来”。
