
    The Vehicle Takes the Wheel 载体(车乘)行驶

    Among the group of important Theosophists in London was an American  who would play a vital financial role in both Krishna's and my parents'  future. She was Mary Dodge, the heiress of the Phelps Dodge copper  fortune. Miss Dodge supported not only causes but many people and  their perpetual travels on behalf of Theosophy. She herself was too  crippled by arthritis to travel and once told my mother that the one  ocean voyage she had embarked on from America to England had caused  her such seasickness that she had decided to remain in England for the  rest of her life. She shared her home, Westside House on Wimbledon  Common, with a fellow Theosophist, Lady De La Warr. Mrs Besant  was always welcome there along with her wards. Miss Dodge even  offered Krishna a house on Hampstead Heath. She also settled on him 500 a year for life. This generosity toward a young Indian boy she  scarcely knew is a mark of not uncommon Theosophical faith in their  leaders. Krishna had not yet attained the magnetic force that he soon  would display. But those who knew Mrs Besant trusted her absolutely.  If she said she believed Krishna was to be the vehicle for the world  teacher, they did not question her judgment and did all in their power  to assist her. 

在伦敦的一群重要的神智学家中，有一位美国人，他将在克里希纳和我父母的未来中扮演至关重要的经济角色。她就是玛丽・道奇，菲尔普斯・道奇铜业的继承人。道奇小姐不仅支持慈善事业，还支持许多人以及他们代表神智学的永久旅行。她有一次告诉我母亲，她从美国到英国的一次海上航行使她晕船，以至于她决定在英国度过余生。她和另一位神智学者德拉・瓦尔夫人(Lady De La Warr)住在温布尔登公园(Wimbledon Common)的西区住宅(Westside House)。贝赞特夫人和她的守卫在那里总是受到欢迎。道奇小姐甚至给克里希纳一套汉普斯特德希思的房子。她还决定终身每年给他500英镑。这种对一个她几乎不认识的年轻印度男孩的慷慨，标志着对他们的领导人的神智学信仰并不罕见。克里希纳还没有获得他即将展示的吸引力，但那些认识贝赞特夫人的人绝对信任她。如果她说她相信克里希纳是世界导师的载体，他们不会质疑她的判断，并尽其所能帮助她。

    In spring 1913, not long after this financial boon, Krishna began  tofirevegl a new side to his character, different from the affectionate,  dreamy, sometimes vacant boy of only four years before. With the  approach of his eighteenth birthday Krishna began to show his dislike  of criticism and to flex his independence. 

1913年春天，在这次经济恩惠之后不久，克里希纳开始展现出他性格的新一面，与仅仅四年前那个深情、爱做梦、有时茫然的男孩不同了。随着他十八岁生日的临近，克里希纳开始表现出对批评的厌恶，并显示出自己的独立性。

    Mrs Besant had asked George Arundale, the head of Central Hindu  College, which she had founded, to come to England expressly to  tutor Krishna and Nitya. She had also asked Jinarajadasa, now an  important member of the Theosophical Society to join them. Being  loyal Theosophists, these two men did not hesitate to give up work  that greatly interested them for this new task ⌒ a task not made easier  by Leadbeater's assertion that while they were both Krishna's teachers,  the Master Kuthumi had revealed that they were also his disciples. One can imagine that being tutor to a teenage boy who knew you were his  disciple was not an easy undertaking. 

贝桑特夫人邀请她创办的中央印度教学院院长乔治・阿伦代尔专程来英国指导克里希纳和尼提亚。她还邀请了现在是神智学会重要成员的吉纳拉贾达萨加入他们。作为忠诚的神智学者，这两个人毫不犹豫地放弃了他们非常感兴趣的工作来完成这项新任务。利德比特断言，虽然他们都是克里希纳的老师，但库图米(Kuthumi)大师透露他们也是克里希纳的弟子，这并没有使这项任务变得更容易。可以想象，给一个知道你是他弟子的十几岁男孩当家庭教师不是一件容易的事。

    Theosophy had a way of generating a great deal of excitement, particularly among its higher echelons. Mrs Besant was still an indefatigable  lecturer. She travelled widely, lecturing on the precepts of Theosophy  and on the preparations for the coming world teacher. There were  already 15,000 worldwide members of the Order of the Star, a society  formed within Theosophy to prepare themselves and the world for ?(r)the  Coming'. A publication called the Herald of the Star kept these hopeful  people abreast of the latest developments. Krishna was prominently  featured as the editor, although George Arundale did the work. 

神智学有办法令群情激动，尤其是在其高层中。贝赞特夫人仍然是一位不知疲倦的演讲者。她四处游历，讲授神智学的戒律，并为即将到来的世界导师做准备。在世界范围内，已经有15000名明星社的成员，这是一个在神智学中形成的社会，旨在为自己和世界为“即将到来”做好准备。一份名为《明星先驱报》的出版物使这些满怀希望的人们了解最新的事态发展。克里希纳以编辑的身份引人注目，尽管编辑工作是乔治・阿伦代尔(George Arundale)做的。

    In spite of the responsible efforts of Jinarajadasa to instil some culture  into the prospective world teacher, the fun of the details of publishing,  such as choosing fancy ink and paper, easily occluded any thoughts  of Shakespeare and Sanskrit from Krishna's mind. Jinarajadasa soon  discovered for himself the change in this once docile young man. Krishna  had no intention of giving up his exciting new life for studies that bored  him. As well as disliking criticism, Krishna also disliked discipline. He  had probably suffered from it as a child. Those who took too firm a hand  with him quickly lost his favour. Among these was his once beloved  tutor Jinarajadasa. As part of Krishna's proclamation of independence,  he wrote to Leadbeater objecting to the Master's instructions being  transmitted to him through others. He felt he could carry out the  Master's instructions better if they were not forced upon him and made  unpleasant. Miss Dodge's generosity would now, theoretically, make it  possible for him to plan his own living arrangements. In this plan he  eliminated Jinarajadasa from whom, he said, he could not possibly learn  Sanskrit. The younger George Arundale was much more to his liking  and was someone ⌒ at that time ⌒ Krishna felt he could control. 

尽管吉纳拉贾达萨负责任地向未来的世界教师灌输一些文化，但出版细节的乐趣，比如选择精美的墨水和纸张，很容易使克里希纳的头脑中没有任何莎士比亚和梵语的想法。吉那拉贾达萨很快就发现了这个曾经温顺的年轻人的变化。克里希纳不打算放弃令人兴奋的新生活，去学习令他厌烦的东西。除了不喜欢批评，克里希纳也不喜欢纪律。他小时候可能患过这种病。那些对他过于强硬的人很快就失去了他的好感。其中就有他曾经深爱的导师吉纳拉贾达萨。作为克里希纳宣布独立的一部分，他写信给利德比特，反对大师的指示通过他人传递给他。他觉得如果大师的指示不被强加于他，不让他感到不愉快，他就能更好地执行。从理论上讲，道奇小姐的慷慨现在使他有可能计划自己的生活安排。在这个计划中，他去掉了吉那拉伽达萨，他说，他不可能从他那里学到梵语。年轻的乔治・阿伦代尔更合克里希纳的口味，是那个时候克里希纳觉得他可以控制的人。

    Yet he was having some problems with George too, stemming from  his relationship with Lady Emily. George and some of the elders on  the scene were critical of the evident affection between Lady Emily  and Krishna. The fact that she was old enough to be his mother did  not mitigate their opinion. But Krishna had found in Lady Emily the  gentle motherly qualities for which he had yearned since the loss of his  own mother. Mrs Besant loved him deeply and gave him warmth and  affection, but he was seldom with her. She was always involved in  momentous activities and he was not her only focal point. To be the  single object of a woman's focus and love would be his lifelong need.  Lady Emily was but the first to fill this role. 

然而，他和乔治之间也有一些问题，这源于他和艾米丽夫人的关系。乔治和在场的一些长者对艾米丽夫人和克里希纳之间明显的感情持批评态度。她的年龄足以做他的母亲，但这并没有改变他们的看法。但克里希纳在艾米丽夫人身上发现了他自失去母亲以来一直渴望的温柔的母性。贝赞特夫人深深地爱着他，给了他温暖和感情，但他很少和她在一起。她总是参与重大活动，而他并不是她唯一的焦点。成为一个女人关注和爱的唯一对象将是他一生的需要。艾米丽夫人是第一个扮演这一角色的人。

    By this time Krishna had finally acquired a facile command of the English language. His natural aptitude for languages, the one subject  in which he could excel (though he could not pass the examinations)  coupled with an ear for poetry and a gift for elocution would serve  him well ⌒ to say nothing of his now striking good looks. With his  hair elegantly cut, his teeth straightened, and his poise awakened, he  had moved far away from the rickety, unkempt little boy with lice in  his eyebrows and a vacant look in his eye. 

这时，克里希纳终于熟练掌握了英语。他在语言方面的天赋――这是他最擅长的一门学科(尽管他没能通过考试)――加上对诗歌的鉴赏力和演讲的天赋，使他现在的英俊外表更不用说了。他的头发剪得很漂亮，牙齿很整齐，神态也恢复了，已经远离了那个摇摇晃晃、蓬头垢面、眉毛上长着虱子、眼神茫然的小男孩。

    Theosophists like good Hindus were imbued with qualities of faith  and dharma, or duty. Many of them also sustained trust in the existence  of the Masters and the reality of messages sent through messengers like  Leadbeater. While Blavatsky had been highly sceptical of phenomena  occurring outside her own experience, Mrs Besant had become a trust- ing, if not gullible, person. Her faith was based initially on her own  experiences but for some years she had placed a large part of her occult  trust with Leadbeater. 

神智学者就像虔诚的印度教徒一样，充满了信仰、正法或责任的品质。他们中的许多人也对大师的存在和通过像利德比特这样的信使传递的信息的真实性保持信任。虽然布拉瓦茨基对自己经历之外的现象持高度怀疑态度，但贝赞特夫人已经成为一个值得信任的人，如果不是容易受骗的话。她的信仰最初是基于她自己的经历，但几年来，她把大部分的神秘信仰都寄托在了利德比特身上。

    Krishna's first signs of independence were taken by his elders as a  natural display of adolescent rebelliousness. His protectors (or protectors  of the order, as Mrs Besant and Leadbeater referred to themselves),  tended to explain away his difficult behaviour as symptoms of insuf- ficient readiness in the vehicle. They apparently failed to perceive the  true nature of that incipiently independent mind; a mind that would  ultimately seek its own short cut up the mountain. 

克里希纳最初的独立迹象被他的长辈认为是青春期叛逆的自然表现。他的保护人(或者是秩序的保护人，贝赞特夫人和利德比特这样称呼他们自己)倾向于把他的难处行为解释为载体准备不足的症状。他们显然没有认识到最初独立的心灵的真正本质;一种最终会寻找自己上山捷径的心灵。

    Krishna's new display of independence was, on another level, also  part of a lifelong pattern of behaviour, that of suddenly showing an  interest in and demanding control over affairs that had previously not  interested him at all. His insistence on autonomy was understandable,  but his methods for gaining it would sometimes create confusing and  difficult situations. In the future many people close to Krishna would  believe they were in the presence of an egoless and perfect being, yet  find his ways obfuscated and bewildering. 

克里希纳新的独立表现，在另一个层面上，也是他一生行为模式的一部分，他突然对以前根本不感兴趣的事情表现出兴趣，并要求控制这些事情。他对自主权的坚持是可以理解的，但他获得自主权的方法有时会造成混乱和困难的局面。在未来，许多接近克里希纳的人会相信他们是在一个无我和完美的存在面前，然而发现他的方式是模糊和令人困惑的。


    As aresult of Krishna's protest to Leadbeater, Jinarajadasa was recalled  to India. But evidently the Masters would not co-operate with Krishna's  wish for direct communion with them. So, if for nothing else, Krishna  was still dependent on Leadbeater to relay his advancements along ?(r)the  Path', just as were others in Krishna's small circle, including Lady Emily.  Perhaps not coincidentally, no new advancements came through for any  of his favourites for some time. 

由于克里希纳对利德比特的抗议，吉纳拉贾达萨(Jinarajadasa)被召回印度。但显然大师们不会配合克里希纳与他们直接交流的愿望。所以，如果没有别的原因，克里希纳仍然依赖利德比特来传递他在正道上的进步，就像克里希纳小圈子里的其他人一样，包括艾米丽夫人。也许并非巧合的是，在一段时间内，任何一个他喜欢的人都没有取得新的进展。

    Realizing his rebelliousness had incurred Leadbeater's displeasure,  Krishna wrote a very long apologetic letter, begging forgiveness for his  bad behaviour and acknowledging thathe owed everything to Leadbeater. 

克里希纳意识到他的叛逆招致了利德比特的不快，于是写了一封很长的道歉信，请求原谅他的恶劣行为，并承认他欠利德比特的一切。

    What Krishna did not know at that moment was that Leadbeater was no longer placing all his expectations in Krishna. He had just announced a  new discovery in the person of D. Rajagopalacharya, a thirteen-year-old  Ayyangar Brahmin who was said to have ?(r)a marvellous past and a great  future'. Privately Leadbeater expected that this boy might even fulfil the  role assigned to Krishna should Krishna in some way fall short. While  Mrs Besant appeared to have unequivocally committed her faith and  her love to Krishna, Leadbeater, fond as he was of the young man,  would not find it impossible to admit that he had made a mistake in  his initial choice. 

克里希纳当时不知道的是，利德比特不再把所有的期望都寄托在克里希纳身上。他刚刚宣布了一项新发现，发现对象是13岁的Ayyangar婆罗门拉贾戈帕拉查里亚。据说，拉贾戈帕拉查里亚有着“奇妙的过去和伟大的未来”。利德比特私下里期望，如果克里希纳在某些方面做得不够，这个男孩甚至可以完成分配给克里希纳的角色。虽然贝赞特夫人似乎毫不含糊地将她的信仰和爱献给了克里希纳，但利德比特虽然喜欢这个年轻人，但他也会承认自己最初的选择是错误的。

    Meanwhile Krishna's wish for more independent living arrangements  had been overruled, if not by the Masters, at least by Mrs Besant,  who, in the summer of 1914, moved the brothers to Bude, Cornwall.  They remained there for a year, continuing their studies under George  Arundale in preparation for Oxford. 

与此同时，克里希纳想要更独立生活的愿望被否决了，如果不是被大师们否决，至少是被贝赞特夫人否决了。贝赞特夫人在1914年夏天把兄弟俩搬到了康沃尔郡的布德。他们在那里待了一年，在乔治・阿伦代尔的指导下继续学习，为进入牛津做准备。

    Krishna never found formal academic endeavour either interesting  or casy and this year could not have been very comfortable for him.  Nitya, on the other hand, loved his studies and applied himself with  an enthusiasm that might have been the cause of his severe eye strain  and his generally run-down condition. Krishna felt both sympathy and  impatience with Nitya's poor health. He sometimes complained of his  brother's bad humour, a view that is very much at odds with any offered  by those closest to Nitya, either then or later. All who knew Nitya well,  remarked on his warm, loving nature and his beautiful and spontaneous  laugh and smile. He did not have Krishna's physical beauty, but his  charming personality madec up for that. From the beginning, however,  neither Nitya's wishes, his abilities, nor his health would ever be placed  ahead or even on a par with Krishna's. He would always be considered  an inseparable part of the older brother's future, a part that was decreed  by the Masters. 

克里希纳觉得正式的学术努力既不有趣也不轻松，这一年对他来说不可能很舒服。另一方面，尼提亚热爱他的学习，并以一种热情刻苦钻研，这可能是他严重的眼睛疲劳和身体虚弱的原因。克里希纳对尼提亚糟糕的健康状况既同情又不耐烦。他有时抱怨弟弟的坏脾气，这一观点与当时或后来与尼提亚最亲近的人所提出的观点大相径庭。所有熟悉尼提亚的人都称赞他热情、有爱心的天性，以及他美丽、自然的笑声和微笑。他没有克里希纳的美貌，但他迷人的个性弥补了这一点。然而，从一开始，尼提亚的愿望、他的能力和他的健康都没有被放在克里希纳的前面，甚至没有与他相提并论。他总是被认为是哥哥未来不可分割的一部分，这是大师们决定的一部分。

    Predictably, Krishna failed the entrance examinations for Oxford.  The university made it clear in any case that it preferred not to include  a messiah in the student body. This was the first of Krishna's academic  disappointments and it would have an influence on his attitude toward  intellectual endeavour. For the rest of his life, he emphasized, with  more pride than regret, his inability to pass examinations. 

可想而知，克里希纳没能通过牛津大学的入学考试。该大学明确表示，无论如何，都不希望在学生群体中加入弥赛亚。这是克里希纳在学术上的第一次失望，这将影响他对智力努力的态度。在他的余生中，他更多的是骄傲而不是遗憾地强调自己无法通过考试。

    The First World War had a minimal effect on Krishna's life. In spring  1915 Nitya went off to France to join the Red Cross as a dispatch rider.  Krishna was disappointed not to be allowed to accompany him. As  compensation for having to remain in Cornwall, he was given his own  motorcycle. In June the brothers were reunited in London and it was  decided they should both study for admission to London University. 

第一次世界大战对克里希纳的生活影响很小。1915年春天，尼提亚前往法国加入红十字会，成为一名派遣骑手。克里希纳很失望没有被允许陪伴他。作为不得不留在康沃尔的补偿，他得到了自己的摩托车。当年6月，两兄弟在伦敦团聚，并决定双双考入伦敦大学。


    At this time they met an eminent and kindly barrister named Harold  Baillie-Weaver, who took the' two boys under his wing. From him  they acquired a taste for fashionable clothes (Baillie-Weaver had the same  tailor as the Prince of Wales) and for perfect grooming, which included  the art of polishing shoes, an art which Krishna never lost. The serious  Theosophists around him noticed the emergence ofa new, distinct aspect  of Krishna's personality. He acquired not only a passion for expensive  clothes, but also for fine motorcars, the cinema and for sports. Despite  these fashionable tastes Krishna and Nitya also volunteered for clean-up  chores in a war hospital, duties that for Brahmin boys must have been  highly distasteful. 

就在这时，他们遇到了一位名叫哈罗德・贝利-韦弗的杰出而善良的大律师，他把这两个孩子置于自己的庇护之下。从他那里，他们学会了对时尚服装的品味(贝利-韦弗和威尔士亲王有同一个裁缝)和完美的装扮，其中包括擦鞋的手艺，这是克里希纳从未丢失的手艺。他周围严肃的通神学者注意到克里希纳性格中出现了一个新的、独特的方面。他不仅喜欢昂贵的衣服，还喜欢高档汽车、电影和体育运动。尽管有这些时髦的品味，克里希纳和尼提亚还自愿在一家战争医院做清洁工作，这对婆罗门男孩来说一定是非常令人厌恶的工作。

    Much as they would have liked to move in with the Baillie-Weavers,  the boys were not yet to be permitted even this much independence. For  the next few years they had to live under close supervision in a gloomy  rented house in which they never felt at home. All their capers, innocent  as they might be, were relayed to Mrs Besant. 

尽管他们很想搬到贝利-韦弗家去住，但他们还没有获得这么大的独立性。在接下来的几年里，他们不得不在严密的监视下住在一所阴暗的租来的房子里，在那里他们从来没有家的感觉。他们所有的活动，尽管他们可能是无辜的，都被转述给了贝赞特夫人。

    In 1920 Nitya passed his Matriculation with honours. It was decided  that Krishna, who had repeatedly failed, should go to Paris and study  French. Nitya remained in London, reading for the bar, and to a certain  extent, living his own life, which included placing a bet on a winning  horse. At the time Krishna displayed a sanctimonious attitude when he  heard of his brother's triumph, reminding Nitya how much others must  have lost for him to have won. Yet, by the time [ heard the story from  Krinsh, he showed pride in Nitya's accomplishment and wry humour  in his own failure 1n a similar escapade. 

1920年，尼提亚以优异的成绩通过了大学入学考试。一再失败的克里希纳被决定去巴黎学习法语。尼提亚留在伦敦，为律师考试做准备，在某种程度上，过着自己的生活，其中包括下注一匹获胜的赛马。当时，当克里希纳听到他弟弟赌赢时，他表现出一种伪善的态度，提醒尼提亚，别人必须付出多大的代价才能赢得胜利。然而，当我从克里希纳那里听到这个故事时，他对尼提亚的胜利感到自豪，并对自己在类似冒险中的失败表现出自嘲。

    Only two months after his harsh judgment of Nitya, Krishna demonstrated that he was not above gambling himself. Accompanied by a  Theosophical comrade, he went to the Casino in Nice with the ambitious  intention of ruining the bank by using his will power to control the ball.  At firstr he turned ten francs into a hundred, but in the end he came out  twenty short. 

在他对尼提亚做出严厉的评判仅仅两个月后，克里希纳就证明了他自己也没有超越赌博。在一位神智学同志的陪同下，他去了尼斯的赌场，野心勃勃地想用他的意志力来控制球毁掉筹码。一度他把十法郎变成了一百法郎，但最后输了二十法郎。

    Nitya's winnings, on the other hand, bought for him an Isotta Frascini  car. When Mrs Besant heard about it, she seems to have shared Krishna's  initial disapproval. She made Nitya return it. This incident, however,  strengthened Nitya's determination to become financially independent.  With the help of a well-to-do Indian in Bombay, he worked out a plan  to import motorcars and tractors into India. He was also stopped cold  in this enterprise by Mrs Besant, to whom he had written announcing  that he was postponing his examination in criminal law. She reminded  him that his duty was to look after Krishna, still in Paris, and to remain  within reach should Krishna get into difficulties. She recognized that it was the younger brother who must look after the older, a sacrifice  expected and demanded of Nitya. 

另一方面，尼提亚用奖金买了一辆伊索塔・弗拉西尼(Isotta Frascini)汽车。当贝赞特夫人听说这件事时，她似乎和克里希纳一样最初不赞成。她让尼提亚还回去。然而，这一事件加强了尼提亚在经济上独立的决心。在孟买一位印度富人的帮助下，他制定了向印度进口汽车和拖拉机的计划。他也被贝赞特夫人阻止了，因为他曾写信给她，说他要推迟他的刑法考试。她提醒他，他的职责是照顾仍在巴黎的克里希纳，当克里希纳遇到困难时，他要留在身边。她意识到弟弟必须照顾哥哥，这是尼提亚所期望和要求的牺牲。

    On a brief trip to Paris in February 1920, Nitya had met a charming  French family, Mme de Manziarly and her four children, who would  be closely associated with both brothers. Actually Mme de Manziarly  and her eldest daughter Mima would be among those few people who  gave Nitya first place, over Krishna, in their hearts. He confided to  them during his short life some of his deepest feelings. ?(r)I've never  yet enjoyed anything for which I've not paid dearly, I think it must  be because my enjoyments are among the forbidden ones, and those  that are permissible are not enjoyable.'! 

1920年2月，尼提亚在一次短暂的巴黎之旅中，遇到了一个迷人的法国家庭，德・曼齐亚利夫人和她的四个孩子，她们与两兄弟关系密切。事实上，德・曼齐亚利夫人和她的大女儿米玛是少数几个在她们心中把尼提亚放在第一位的人，而不是克里希纳。在他短暂的一生中，他向她们吐露了一些内心深处的感受：我从来没有享受过不付出高昂代价的东西，我想这一定是因为我的享受是被禁止的，而那些被允许的是不愉快的。

    Krishna, meanwhile, had been attempting to live on his own in a flat  in Paris, but he spent his whole allowance in the first few weeks and  was soon practically starving. He admitted then and later that he could  never manage money. It was quite clear, particularly to Mrs Besant, that  he would always need someone at his side with firm guidance over his  worldly affairs. 

与此同时，克里希纳一直试图独自住在巴黎的一套公寓里，但在最初的几个星期里，他就花光了所有的零花钱，很快就几乎饿死了。他当时和后来都承认，他从来不会理财。很明显，尤其是对贝赞特夫人来说，他总是需要一个人在他身边，在他的世俗事务上给予坚定的指导。

    At twenty-five, Krishna was fluctuating between a wide range of  moods. Sometimes cloaked in a romantic depression, he seriously  doubted the things he had been told about the Masters and his own  future. Sometimes showing a new maturity, he would resolve to search  for his own philosophy of life, to meditate, and to work hard'to prepare  himself to help others. He was already aware that to do this he must  first find himself, that he must develop sympathy, understanding and  love. The next moment he would rudely (and privately) blast off  at the Theosophical leaders, always exempting Mrs Besant from his  outbursts. 

25岁时，克里希纳在各种各样的情绪之间波动。有时，在一种浪漫抑郁的笼罩下，他严重怀疑别人告诉他的关于大师们和他自己未来的事情。有时表现出一种新的成熟，他决心寻找自己的人生哲学，冥想，努力工作，准备帮助别人。他已经意识到，要做到这一点，他必须首先找到自我，他必须培养同情、理解和爱。下一刻，他会粗鲁地(私下地)抨击神智学领袖们，爆发对象总是不包括贝赞特夫人。

    Serious philosophical pursuits were not the only ones that occupied  Krishna that summer in Paris. The two younger de Manziarly daughters  brought a new sense of fun and gaiety into his life. Krishna found his first  romance with Marcelle de Manziarly, and admitted that he could fall in  love with her, but maintained that marriage was out of the question.  He expressed his sense of higher purpose. 

在巴黎的那个夏天，严肃的哲学追求并不是克里希纳唯一的追求。德・曼齐亚利的两个小女儿给他的生活带来了新的乐趣和欢乐。克里希纳与Marcelle de Manziarly找到了他的第一段恋情，并坦白他可能会爱上她，但坚持认为婚姻是不可能的。他表达了他还有更崇高的目标。

    His love life was naturally something Krinsh never discussed with  me. I doubt if he ever seriously discussed it with anyone except, in the  very early years, in his almost daily letters to Lady Emily. Most people  have the impression that nothing of the sort could ever have existed  for him. We shall see, however, this is very far from the truth. 

他的爱情生活自然是克里希纳从来没有和我讨论过的。我怀疑他除了早年几乎每天给爱米丽夫人写信之外，是否曾与任何人认真讨论过这件事。大多数人的印象是，这样的事情对他来说是不可能存在的。然而，我们将看到，这与事实相去甚远。

    Serious reading was added to his repertoire of new activities. The  intellectual circle around Mme de Manziarly fed him such books as  The Idiot, War and Peace and Buddha's Way of Virtue. In the last he found a passage that might have echoed his own inner development  at that moment. ?(r)All conquering and all knowing am [, detached,  untainted, untrammelled, wholly freed by destruction of desire. Whom  shall I call Teacher? Myself found the way.?± This could well be taken  for the kernel from which his philosophy would gradually emerge. He  would eventually claim that all his past conditioning had fallen away  along with his past memory. 

他的新活动中增加了严肃的阅读。德・曼齐亚利夫人周围的知识分子圈子给他提供了《白痴》、《战争与和平》和《佛的美德之路》等书。在最后一本中，他找到了一段可能与他当时内心的发展相呼应的文字：”所有的征服和所有的了解都是超然的，不受污染的，不受束缚的，完全被欲望的毁灭所释放。我该叫谁老师呢？我自己找到了路。“ 这可以看作是他的哲学逐渐产生的核心。他最终会声称，他过去所有的制约都随着他过去的记忆一起消失了。

    He persisted in his rebelliousness ⌒ wisely unrevealed to Mrs Besant ⌒  but abetted by the young de Manziarlys, with whose help ?(r)he hoped to  change the world'. To these sisters he hinted at the contempt he would  one day express for certain Theosophists, saying he was fed up with  the whole crowd of fools. Yet, in 1920 he still felt integrally bound to  the society and hoped to make it eventually conform to his view of the  right path. This view was still unformulated and it would be nine years  before it became publicly known. 

他坚持自己的叛逆，明智地不让贝赞特夫人知道，但在年轻的德・曼齐亚利的怂恿下，他希望在她们的帮助下改变世界。他向这些姐妹们暗示，有朝一日他会对某些神智学家表示轻蔑，说他受够了这群傻瓜。然而，在1920年，他仍然觉得自己与社会是紧密相连的，并希望最终使社会符合他对正道的看法。这个观点还没有形成，直到9年后才为公众所知。

    At this point a new personality would enter his life who would become  for the next fifty years his closest associate. But first Krishna's initial  jealous reaction to this new ?(r)rival' would be another revelation of his  character. 

这时，一个新的人进入了他的生活，在接下来的五十年里，他成为了他最亲密的伙伴。但首先，克里希纳对这个新对手最初的嫉妒反应将是他性格的另一个启示。