4 The New Discovery 新发现

    My father has always avoided the limelight. He would never have looked upon himself as Krishna's rival. Leadbeater and Krishna him- self did that. Ever since I can remember he was a private person,  living a life apart from us, joining us only for meals and special  occasions. 

我父亲一向不愿抛头露面。他决不会把自己看作克里希纳的对手。利德比特和克里希纳自己却这么认为。从我记事起，他就是一个孤僻的人，过着远离我们的生活，只有在吃饭和特殊场合才和我们在一起。

    From the stories he told me of his childhood I visualized a happy home,  clean and fastidious by the highest Brahmin standards. He had loving  parents. Among his six siblings was an especially beloved younger sister  and a rather overbearing older brother. 

从他给我讲的他的童年故事中，我想象出一个幸福的家，按照婆罗门的最高标准，干净、讲究。他有慈爱的父母。在他的六个兄弟姐妹中，有一个特别受人喜爱的妹妹和一个相当专横的哥哥。

    He was born in the state of Madras, now called Tamil Nadu, on 7  September 1900, the fourth of seven children and named Desikacharya  Rajagopalacharya, Desikacharya being his father's given name. (In South  India a child's given name i1s prefaced by the father's given name.) My  father's family was Ayyangar Brahmin, Vaishnavite, one of the highest  and strictest of Hindu castes. His father, V. K. Desikacharya was a judge  and also a Theosophist, a member of the ES, and the President of the  local lodge of the society. 

他于1900年9月7日出生在马德拉斯邦，即现在的泰米尔纳德邦，是七个孩子中的第四个，名叫拉贾戈帕拉查里亚(Desikacharya Rajagopalacharya), Desikacharya是他父亲的名字。(在南印度，孩子的名字要以父亲的名字开头。)我父亲的家庭是Ayyangar婆罗门，毗湿奴派，印度教最高和最严格的种姓之一。他的父亲V. K. Desikacharya是一名法官，也是一名神智学者，是ES的成员，也是当地分会的主席。

    My Indian grandmother, Doraichi, was deeply religious. Even at the  age of ninety she still made a daily pilgrimage to the temple, a mile  each way from her home. Of her seven children, only my father, like  his father, became a Theosophist. 

我的印度祖母多拉吉是一个虔诚的教徒。即使在九十岁的时候，她仍然每天去离家一英里的寺庙朝拜。在她的七个孩子中，只有我的父亲，像他的父亲一样，成为了一个神智学者。

    In spite of the liberalizing influence of Theosophy, the family adhered  strictly to certain orthodox Hindu customs. Eating onions or root vegetables, for which my father had an unfortunate liking, was forbidden.  Liking foods that were either forbidden or bad for him would be a  lifelong habit with Raja. One day, hiding behind an old shed munching  a raw onion, Raja was caught by his older brother in this defiance of  the family's caste restrictions. As is so often the case, the discipline of  an older sibling can be much more severe than that of the parents.  On another day in December 1913 Raja was again in tears after some  such incident with his brother. His mother suddenly suggested that  Desikacharya take his young son along to the Christmas convention     of the Theosophical Society to be held at Calicut, a day's train journey  away. 

尽管有神智学的影响，但这个家庭严格遵守某些正统的印度教习俗。不幸的是我父亲喜欢吃洋葱和根茎类蔬菜，这是被禁止的。喜欢被禁止或对他有害的食物将是拉贾一生的习惯。有一天，拉贾躲在一个旧棚子后面大嚼生洋葱，他的哥哥无视家族的种姓限制，抓住了他。通常情况下，哥哥姐姐的管教可能比父母严厉得多。1913年12月的另一天，拉贾又哭了，因为他和哥哥发生了类似的事情。他的母亲突然建议德斯卡查里亚（Desikacharya)带他年幼的儿子一起去参加圣诞大会，神智学会的会议将在卡利卡特举行，那里有一天的火车车程。

    As an Ayyangar Brahmin Desikacharya would not eat food prepared  by anyone other than a member of the same caste. Therefore the cook  had to accompany them. Unfortunately, at one of the junction stations  the cook wandered a bit far and missed the train, causing Desikacharya  and Raja, to arrive at the conference a day late. This incident would not  have been memorable except that Leadbeater, who was to preside over  the conference, stated later that the night before leaving for it he had  been told by the Master Kuthumi that he would find there someone  new and very special. He looked around carefully on his arrival and saw  no one, or rather no aura, out of the ordinary. Although puzzled, he did  not doubt the Master's word. When Desikacharya and his son turned  up the next day and Leadbeater saw the boy's aura, he recognized that  this was the person he had been looking for. He entered in his diary for  26 December 1913, ”Met D. Rajagopalacharya and instantly recognized  him as one of us.“

作为一名Ayyangar婆罗门，德斯卡查里亚(Desikacharya)不会吃同一种姓以外的人准备的食物。因此厨师不得不陪着他们。不幸的是，在一个交汇站，厨师走得太远了，错过了火车，导致德斯卡查里亚和拉贾晚了一天到达会场。要不是主持会议的利德比特后来说，在出发的前一天晚上，库图米大师告诉他，他会在那里找到一个新的、非常特别的人，这件事本来是不会令人难忘的。他一到，就仔细地环顾四周，没有看到任何与众不同的人，或者说没有什么与众不同的气场。他虽然迷惑不解，但并不怀疑大师的话。第二天，当德斯卡查里亚和他的儿子出现时，利德比特看到了男孩的气场，他意识到这就是他一直在寻找的人。1913年12月26日，他在日记中写道:“遇到了拉贾戈帕拉查里亚(D. Rajagopalacharya)，并立即认出他是我们中的一员。”

    The fact that for the past six months Leadbeater had been coping  with Krishna's continuing rebelliousness might have prompted him (or  the Master Kuthumi) to continue the search for the vehicle. News of  this ?(r)discovery' would eventually reverberate all the way to Europe. 

在过去的六个月里，利德比特一直在应对克里希纳持续的反叛，这一事实可能促使他(或库图米大师)继续寻找那个载体。这一“发现”的消息最终传遍了整个欧洲。

    For Raja, this moment was the beginning of a new and long path.  Desikacharya was naturally pleased that his young son had drawn the  notice of a leader in the society. Although personal encounters with  Leadbeater would be few and far between for Raja, the older man was  to take a profound and enduring interest in the boy that started with daily  letters. His English was still limited, but Raja responded with letters of  his own ?(r)full of affection, and always asking for guidance how to live the  life of dedication to the Master, which he had accepted with joy' This  time Leadbeater had chosen a candidate who was well nourished, eager  to learn and willing to obey. (Except when it came to food.) At some  point Desikacharya must have mentioned his eldest son's discipline of  Raja over his eating habits. This evoked a strong plea from Leadbeater. 

对拉贾来说，这一刻是一条新的漫长道路的开始。德斯卡查里亚很高兴他的小儿子引起了社会领袖的注意。虽然对拉贾来说，与利德比特的个人接触很少，但这位老人对这个从每天写信开始的男孩产生了深刻而持久的兴趣。他的英语仍然有限，但拉贾用他自己充满感情的信件回应，并总是请求指导如何过奉献给大师的生活，这是他欣然接受的。这一次，利德比特选择了一个营养良好、渴望学习、愿意服从(除了在食物方面)的候选人。在某个时候，德斯卡查里亚一定提到了他的大儿子对拉贾的饮食习惯的约束。这引起了利德比特的强烈抗辩。

    “A thousand chilli cakes are not worth upsetting the feelings of  this great soul,” said Leadbeater, who then firmly recommended that  Desikacharya prohibit that elder brother from interfering with young  Raja in any way, as he evidently was not capable of understanding his  young brother's true nature. Leadbeater himself would often caution  Raja to take better care of his health. But Raja did not perceive this  advice as anything other than affectionate concern and would never  resent Leadbeater. 

一千个辣椒饼都不值得让这个伟大的灵魂感到不安。利德比特说，然后他坚决建议德斯卡查里亚禁止那个哥哥以任何方式干涉小拉贾，因为他显然无法理解他弟弟的真实本性。利德比特自己也经常提醒拉贾要注意自己的健康。但拉贾只把这个建议看作是一种亲切的关心，永远不会怨恨利德比特。

    Two months later Leadbeater was to set off for Australia on what he  then intended to be a short stay of six months or so; but he would be  absent from India for twenty years. Concerned about the future of his  new discovery, before leaving he sent for Raja to visit Adyar for a few  days so that he could inspire him to pursue his education. Jinarajadasa,  who at Krishna's instigation, had just been recalled to India, was asked  to look out for Raja in Leadbeater's absence. With his family's blessings,  Raja was sent to the Theosophical school in Benares. He made lifelong  friends there, among whom was Yagna Shastri, Rukmini's brother. 

两个月后，利德比特要动身去澳大利亚，他本来打算在那里短暂停留六个月左右，但最终离开了印度二十年。考虑到他的新发现的未来，在离开之前，他让拉贾去拜访阿迪亚几天，这样他就可以激励他继续学习。在克里希纳的鼓动下，吉那拉贾达萨刚刚被召回印度，并被要求在利德比特缺席的情况下照看拉贾。在家人的祝福下，拉贾被送到贝拿勒斯的神智学校。他在那里交了一辈子的朋友，其中包括Rukmini的兄弟雅格纳(Yagna Shastri)。

    Yagna was the same age as my father. I first met him when he was  seventy-four while we were staying at Leadbeater Chambers in Adyar.  One morning Yagna appeared on the veranda in his immaculate white  kurta and pants with a small boy's smile on his face. 

雅格纳和我父亲一样大。我第一次见到他是在他74岁的时候，当时我们住在阿迪亚的利德比特 小屋酒店。一天早晨，雅格纳出现在阳台上，穿着一件洁白的短上衣和长裤，脸上带着一个小男孩的微笑。

    “Isn't it just like your father's?” were his first words to me. He  pointed at the short wide nose that can be found on ninth-century  Chola sculpture as well as among the present population of Tamil  Nadu. My father had never told me about Yagna. In a few minutes  Yagna told me a great deal about my father. 

"这不就像你父亲的吗?"这是他对我说的第一句话。他指了指九世纪的乔拉(Chola)雕塑和泰米尔纳德邦(Tamil Nadu)现在的泰米尔居民身上都能找到的短而宽的鼻子。父亲从未告诉过我雅格纳的事。几分钟后，雅格纳给我讲了许多关于我父亲的事。

    "The first day Raja arrived at school I threw mud on his eggs, partly  to tease and partly because I thought it wrong for the Theosophists to  make us eat eggs, strictly forbidden to Brahmins. "

"拉贾到学校的第一天，我就把泥巴撒在他的鸡蛋上，一方面是为了取笑他，另一方面是因为我认为神智学者让我们吃鸡蛋是不对的，婆罗门是严格禁止吃鸡蛋的。"

   "He was homesick and that made him cry. | remember that moment  so well ⌒ how he felt and how I felt. 

"他想家了，所以哭了。我清楚地记得那一刻他的感受和我的感受。"

    "Our true friendship only started forty years after those schooldays in  Benares. I was jealous of Raja then. I saw him as a spiritual rival -such  rivalry had already descended to the young. I even hit him once for no  reason at all and he never hit me back. He was everyone's favourite.  They all loved him. 

"我们真正的友谊是在贝拿勒斯的学生时代之后40年才开始的。那时我嫉妒拉贾。我把他看作一个精神上的对手――这种竞争已经降临到年轻人身上了。我甚至无缘无故打了他一次，他也没还手。他是每个人的最爱。他们都爱他。"

    "Raja and I belonged to a small group of boys, singled out by  Leadbeater because of our significant past lives and future potential.  We certainly felt our special status, and created a good deal of mischief.  Not Raja, he was never a troublemaker, but some of us refused to  address the teachers formally as Sir, and we threw the brass washing  pots at other boys during their bath. "

"拉贾和我属于一小群男孩，因为我们重要的前世和未来的潜力而被利德比特挑选出来。我们当然感到自己的特殊地位，于是制造了许多恶作剧。拉贾不是，他从来不是一个麻烦制造者，但我们中的一些人拒绝正式称呼老师们为“先生”，我们在其他男孩洗澡的时候把黄铜洗脸盆扔向他们。"


    “Poor Shiva Rao, our tutor [formerly Krishna's tutor at Adyar] finally  felt compelled to write to Leadbeater and complain about his boys. He got small satisfaction from that! Leadbeater replied that if Shiva Rao couldn't control his boys he was not fit to be their teacher. 
    We would both come down to Adyar for holidays and scramble together over the open beams of this very building, which was being constructed then. The only naughty thing I ever saw your father do was  frighten Mrs Jinarajadasa with a coiled-up rope. She thought it was a  snake and nearly had a heart attack. We thought she was a very prim  and proper Englishwoman and laughed at her accent. Later of course  we were all good friends, but the idea of an Indian marrying an English- woman was very odd in those days. It was even upsetting when my  sister, Rukmini, married George Arundale. Then I married an American  and so did your father. That's what Theosophy did for us all.' 

“可怜的Shiva Rao，我们的导师(以前是克里希纳在阿迪亚的导师)终于受不了，不得不写信给利德比特，抱怨他的孩子们。他从中得到一点小小的满足!
利德比特回答说，如果Shiva Rao不能控制他的孩子，他不适合做他们的老师。

我们俩都会到阿德亚尔来度假，一起忙活，就在这幢房子的横梁上，这幢房子正在构造。我见过你父亲做过的唯一一件淘气的事就是用一根卷起来的绳子吓唬吉纳拉贾达萨太太。她以为那是一条蛇，差点心脏病发作。我们认为她是一个非常正经的英国女人，并嘲笑她的口音。当然，后来我们都成了好朋友，但是一个印度人娶一个英国女人在当时是很奇怪的。甚至当我妹妹鲁克米尼嫁给乔治・阿伦代尔时，我也很难过。后来我和一个美国人结婚，你父亲也是。这就是神智学为我们大家所做的。”

    From 1914, when Raja left home for Benares, he never returned to  his family, except to visit. His closest relationships would be based on  a brotherhood of ideals rather than a kinship of blood. If his family  resented this, and, according to Rukmini, they sometimes did, they  also felt deeply grateful for the help he would unfailingly give them  for several generations. Raja's older brother, however, who remained  an orthodox Hindu, continued to feel that Raja was being ?(r)led astray'  by the Theosophists, who did not adhere to traditions. (He may have  been right, from his point of view, for when their father died, Raja,  then eighteen, defied his brother and upheld Desikacharya's wishes that  his widow be spared the orthodox Hindu forms of mourning, such as  shaving her head. This eccentric behaviour caused so much gossip in  Tanjor, where they were then living, that Raja took it on himself to  move the whole family to Madras.) 

从1914年拉贾离开家去贝拿勒斯之后，他除了去看望家人外，再也没有回过家。他最亲密的关系是基于理想的兄弟情谊，而不是血缘关系。如果他的家人对此感到不满，据鲁克米尼说，他们有时确实会这样做，但他们也对他几代人以来不断给予他们的帮助深表感激。然而，拉贾的哥哥仍然是一个正统的印度教徒，他仍然觉得拉贾被那些不遵守传统的神智学者引入了歧途。(从他的角度来看，他可能是对的，因为当他们的父亲去世时，当时18岁的拉贾违抗了他的兄弟，坚持德斯卡查里亚的愿望，不让他的遗孀接受传统的印度哀悼方式，比如剃头。这种古怪的行为在他们当时居住的坦杰尔(Tanjor)引起了很多流言蜚语，拉贾决定把全家搬到马德拉斯(Madras)。

    After one year at Benares, Raja decided he would prefer to go to the  Theosophical school and college at Madanapalle, Krishna's birthplace.  By this time Leadbeater had decided, through his unique investigations,  that Raja, in his last incarnation, had been St Bernard of Clairvaux. The  political and the stirring oratorical abilities of this saint, demonstrated by  his healing ofa schism within the church, preaching for the crusade in  AD 1145, his organizational talents in planning and building monasteries  and his love for and preservation of books and manuscripts had been  described in biographies of St Bernard, published in English in the  1890s. Those books were available to Leadbeater. Some of these qualities  are also thought to be inherent in the true Vaishnavite, adherents of  Vishnu, the Preserver. When Raja stayed at Adyar, his small bedroom  in the headquarters building was adjacent to the room and library of  the absent Leadbeater. He was free to avail himself of the library and  was to develop a lifelong cherishing of books. Who can say with  certainty whether Raja's later manifested traits and talents were duc  to the awareness of his alleged former incarnation, the influence of  Leadbeater, or were simply natural to him? It would not be easy to  separate the influences he had as a young boy among the Theosophists  from the rigorous brahmanic training in his own home. There is no doubt that he eventually developed a strong will directed unwaveringly  toward what he perceived to be his own life purpose or sva-dharma, a  concept perfectly exemplified by Arjuna in the Bhagavadgita, when he  casts aside his horror of entering the battle in order to fulfil his intrinsic  nature and duty as a warrior. 

在贝拿勒斯呆了一年之后，拉贾决定他更愿意去克里希纳的出生地马达纳帕勒的神智学校和大学。这时，利德比特经过一番独特的调查，断定拉贾的前世就是克莱尔沃的圣伯纳。这位圣人的政治和激动人心的演讲能力，表现在他治愈了教会内部的分裂，公元1145年为十字军东征布道，他在规划和建造修道院方面的组织才能，以及他对书籍和手稿的热爱和保存，这些都在19世纪90年代用英语出版的圣伯纳传记中得到了描述。利德比特可以买到这些书。其中一些品质也被认为是真正的毗湿奴，毗湿奴保护者的追随者所固有的。当拉贾住在阿迪亚时，他在总部大楼的小卧室与缺席的利德比特的房间和图书馆相邻。他可以自由地利用图书馆，并养成了终身爱书的习惯。谁能肯定地说，拉贾后来表现出来的特征和才能是由于他所谓的前世的意识，还是利德比特的影响，还是仅仅是他天生的？要把他小时候受到的神智学者的影响与他自己家中严格的婆罗门教训练分开是不容易的。毫无疑问，他最终发展出一种坚强的意志，毫不动摇地朝着他所认为的自己的人生目标或所谓的法性职责“sva-dharma”方向前进，这一概念在《薄伽梵歌》中由阿周那完美地例证，他抛开了对进入战场的恐惧，以履行他作为一名战士的内在本性和职责。

    On one subject Raja would remain intractable for his whole life.  Exercise. He simply would not do it, except on sporadic and rare  occasions when impelled by some peculiar motivation. During Raja's  holidays, he stayed at Adyar with Jinarajadasa, who urged him to go  for a good bicycle ride every afternoon. He was probably convinced  that his advice was being taken. Raja appeared to ride off down the  road and be gone for a good two hours. But just around the corner,  practically next door, lived Rukmini's family. Here he was warmly  welcomed to tea and whiled away the afternoon in the company of two  very beautiful young girls. According to Rukmini, her sister Shivakamu  was the main attraction. Raja would urge Rukmini to go and try on  an endless array of saris which, one by one, she would come in to  model for him while he conversed with the other sister. Whatever  benefit Raja lost from lack of exercise, he gained in the warmth and  fun of these afternoon visits. Even heavily chaperoned, this socializing  between boys and girls was highly unorthodox and an example of the  liberalizing effect which Theosophy could have on Hindu culture. The  unselfconscious and lasting friendships that developed helped to shape  their later lives, lives of complexity and idealism, that would bridge  diverse cultures. These times at Adyar also exposed Raja to occasional  currents of dissension between his elders. Once sitting unobtrusively  and unnoticed he heard Jinarajadasa reprimand George Arundale, who had just left Krishna in England.  ?°You were supposed to stay there and look after him.'  ?(r)I could take no more,' replied George.  This exchange had no meaning for my father at the time, but it   remained in his memory. Years later he would see letters between these  two men who had been so devoted to Krishna, expressing their disillusionment over Krishna's early powers of manipulating and exploiting  those trying to help him. 

有一个问题拉贾一辈子都难以解决。锻炼。他就是不愿意这样做，除非在偶然和罕见的情况下，受到某种特殊动机的驱使。在拉贾的假期里，他和吉纳拉贾达萨一起住在阿达尔，吉纳拉贾达萨劝他每天下午骑自行车去兜风。他可能确信他的建议被采纳了。拉贾似乎骑着车沿着路走了，足足走了两个小时。其实就在拐角处，几乎就在隔壁，住着鲁克米尼(Rukmini)的家人。在这里，他受到了热烈的欢迎，在两位非常漂亮的年轻姑娘的陪伴下消磨了一个下午。据Rukmini说，她的妹妹Shivakamu是主要的吸引力。拉贾会敦促鲁克米尼去试穿各种各样的纱丽，当他和另一个妹妹交谈时，她会一件一件地进来为他做模特。无论拉贾因缺乏锻炼而失去了什么好处，他都从这些下午的拜访中获得了温暖和乐趣。即使在严密的监护下，男孩和女孩之间的这种社交活动也是非常不正统的，这是通神论对印度文化产生自由化影响的一个例子。这种不自觉而持久的友谊帮助塑造了他们后来的生活，复杂而理想的生活，架起了不同文化之间的桥梁。在阿迪亚的这段时间里，拉贾也偶尔暴露在他的长辈之间的不和中。有一次，他坐在不显眼的地方，听到吉那拉贾达萨斥责乔治・阿伦代尔，后者刚刚离开了在英国的克里希纳。”你应该呆在那里照顾他的。“，“我再也受不了了”，乔治回答。这种交流在当时对父亲来说毫无意义，但却留在了他的记忆中。多年以后，他会看到这两位对克里希纳如此忠诚的人之间的信件，表达了他们对克里希纳早期操纵和利用那些试图帮助他的人的力量的醒悟。

    By the time he was sixteen, Raja began to fulfil, in a very concrete  way, Leadbeater's initial hopes for him. 
16岁时，拉贾开始以非常具体的方式实现利德比特最初对他的期望。

    He had found several villages around Madanapalle without any school.  To him it was a tragedy to see children as well as their elders unable to  read or write. He got the villagers to clean out a shed and persuaded his  fellow students to teach night school. He raised money for books and lights and organized the programme. Succeeding with the first school,  he went on to set up others. This idealism did not go unheeded by  Annie Besant. 

他发现Madanapalle周围有几个村庄没有学校。对他来说，看到孩子们和他们的长辈一样不会读书写字是一个悲剧。他让村民们清理了一间棚屋，并说服他的同学们去夜校教书。他筹钱买书和买灯，并组织了这个活动。第一所学校办得很成功，他接着又办了几所。安妮・贝赞特也注意到了这种理想主义。

    In 1919, Raja was invited to accompany the Jinarajadasas to Australia,  where they would visit Leadbeater in Sydney. It would be the first time  in five years that he would see the man who had recognized his potential  for a ?(r)marvellous future'. On the way to Australia they stopped in Java.  Here Raja exhibited one of his rare but dramatic instances of physical  endurance. He walked barefoot up a volcano. My father's ability to  withstand these unprepared-for exertions with no ill after-effects, was  exhibited throughout his life and was often the envy of those, like  Krinsh, who arduously, for many days, prepared themselves for such  an undertaking. 

1919年，拉贾被邀请陪同吉那拉贾达萨(Jinarajadasas)一家去澳大利亚，在那里他们将拜访悉尼的利德比特。这将是五年来他第一次见到这位认识到自己拥有“奇妙未来”潜力的人。在去澳大利亚的途中，他们在爪哇停了下来。在这里，拉贾展示了他罕见但戏剧性的身体耐力。他光着脚爬上了一座火山。我父亲有能力承受这些毫无准备的劳累而没有任何不良后果，这种能力在他的一生中都表现出来，经常让那些像克里希纳这样的人羡慕不已，他们为像这样的任务要辛苦地准备许多天。

    When Raja and the Jinarajadasas arrived in Australia, they were  immediately confronted by Leadbeater's continuing difficulties with  unsubstantiated charges of sexual misconduct. In fact, he was being  attacked not only on grounds of immorality but of lunacy as well.  The latter charges stemmed from his predictions about the coming of  the world teacher. Leadbeater had also become a Bishop in the Liberal  Catholic Church, once called the Old Catholic Church, which had been  formed as a protest against papal infallibility. It followed the ritual of  the Roman Catholic Church in the Mass, but there was no confessional  in the Liberal Catholic Church and celibacy was not required of the  priesthood. The English liturgy had been composed by a joint effort of  Mrs Besant and Leadbeater. 

当拉贾和吉那拉贾达萨抵达澳大利亚时，他们立即面临利德比特的持续困难，即未经证实的性行为不端的指控。事实上，他受到攻击的理由不仅是不道德，还包括精神错乱。后一项指控源于他对世界导师到来的预言。利德比特还成为了自由天主教会的主教，该教会曾被称为旧天主教会，是为了抗议教皇的无谬性而成立的。它遵循罗马天主教会的弥撒仪式，但自由天主教会没有忏悔室，祭司也不需要独身。英国的礼拜仪式是由贝赞特夫人和利德比特共同努力创作的。

    The evidence against Leadbeater was largely based on Hubert Van  Hook's claim that Leadbeater had made improper advances to him in  Adyar and had faked the Lives. However, since Hubert's future as the  vehicle, before being given a fair chance, had been abruptly terminated  by Leadbeater's discovery of Krishnamurti, Hubert was not an unbiased  witness. And one might wonder what proot of fraud anyone could offer  as to whether the Lives of Alcyone were dictated by Leadbeater's occult  knowledge or by his fertile imagination. 

针对利德比特的证据主要是基于休伯特(Hubert Van Hook)的说法，即利德比特在阿迪亚对他进行了不正当的求爱，并伪造了《生命》。然而，由于休伯特作为载体的未来，在被给予公平的机会之前，就因利德比特发现克里希那穆提而突然终止，休伯特并不是一个公正的证人。人们可能会想，关于《阿尔西翁传》是由利德比特的神秘知识还是他丰富的想象力所决定，有什么证据能证明这一点呢?

    Jinarajadasa was horrified at the implied collapse, inherent in this  scandal, of the whole occult hierarchy from Leadbeater on down - to say nothing of the Liberal Catholic Church and the reliance on  Leadbeater's reports of initiations for countless hopeful people. But as  it had in the past, the furore soon died down. One of the central tenets  of Theosophy was to shun gossip, and most of the charges flying on  all sides turned out to be no more than that. 
吉那拉贾达萨对这桩丑闻所隐含的整个神秘学等级制度的崩溃感到震惊，这是内在的，从利德比特开始，更不用说自由天主教会，以及无数有希望的人对利德比特的启蒙报告的依赖。但就像过去一样，这种愤怒很快就平息了。神智学的核心原则之一是避免流言蜚语，而来自各方的大多数指控最终也不过如此。

    In the summer of 1920 Raja sailed with Jinarajadasa to England, where he stayed with Miss Dodge while preparing to take his entrance  examinations for Cambridge. 
1920年夏天，拉贾和吉纳拉贾达萨一起乘船去了英国，在那里他和道奇小姐住在一起，准备参加剑桥大学的入学考试。

    When Krishna and Nitya heard of the imminent arrival on their stage  of Leadbeater's ?(r)new discovery', their reaction was, to say the least,  surprising in those being prepared for such high purpose. Nitya who  had been enjoying living on his own at long last, was furious to find that  he would soon have to share his flat. Yolande and Marcelle de Manziarly  teased Krishna about being jealous of his new rival, to which Krishna  retorted that he would gladly hand over to that ?(r)blinker', Rajagopal, his  place. He made fun of the name, however, and scoffed when he heard  Raja wore white gloves. (Raja would not know of Krishna's taunts until  thirty years later when he read of them in Lady Emily's biography.) On  a more serious level, Krishna had been venting his increasing impatience  with the Theosophists and with the notions that had surrounded him  since his own discovery. Soon he would be pleasantly surprised to  find in Raja a friend with strong rational and intellectual capacities to  whom he could look for support in his struggle for total independence.  But it was Nitya who became Raja's closest friend. They had more in  common intellectually and temperamentally than either of them had  with Krishna. 

当克里希纳和尼提亚听说利德比特的“新发现”即将出现在他们的舞台上时，他们的反应至少可以说是令人惊讶的，因为他们已经准备好了如此高的目标。尼提亚终于享受了自己的生活，但当他发现自己很快就要和别人合租公寓时，他非常愤怒。约兰德和马塞勒・德・曼齐亚利取笑克里希纳嫉妒他的新对手，克里希纳反驳说，他很乐意把自己的位置让给那个“眨眼者”拉贾戈帕尔。然而，当他听到拉贾戴着白手套时，他嘲笑了这个名字。(拉贾直到三十年后才知道克里希纳的嘲讽，当时他在艾米丽夫人的传记中读到了。)在更严重的层面上，克里希纳一直在发泄他对神智学家和自他自己的发现以来围绕着他的观念日益增长的不耐烦。很快，他就惊喜地发现拉贾是他的朋友，他有很强的理性和智力，他可以在争取完全独立的斗争中寻求拉贾的支持。但尼提亚成了拉贾最亲密的朋友。他们在智力上和气质上的共同之处，比他们和克里希纳都多。

    Raja was, in at least one respect, more fortunate than the brothers.  Being less the centre of attention, he was able to pursue what he  most wanted to do: to avail himself of the opportunity to study  at Cambridge. Nitya, who had a brilliant mind, had passed all his  examinations and was reading for the bar in London, still hoping to  gain financial independence. Because of Krishna's needs, and his own  ill health, he would not be able to continue this pursuit much longer. 
拉贾至少在一个方面比兄弟俩幸运。由于不再是人们关注的焦点，他得以追求自己最想做的事情:利用在剑桥学习的机会。尼提亚头脑聪明，已经通过了所有的考试，正在伦敦攻读律师资格，仍然希望获得经济独立。由于克里希纳的需要，以及他自己的健康状况不佳，他无法再继续这种追求了。

    Thanks to Miss Dodge, Raja's life at St John's College, Cambridge  was not only intellectually interesting but also comfortable. He had  a set of rooms with his own furnishings, in short, the facilities that  any upper-class young Englishman would expect. Because he was in a  university and working hard from the beginning to make the most of  this opportunity, ultimately getting his degrees with honours, he was  spared the upper-crust English snobbery which had so badly infected  Krishna and Nitya in their early years in that society. Raja took very  strongly to Western culture, studying Greek and Latin. He specialized  in European and English history and law. He developed a keen ear for  Western classical music but would always retain his love for Indian  music and culture. 
多亏了道奇小姐，拉贾在剑桥圣约翰学院的生活不仅在智力上很有趣，而且很舒适。他有一套房间，里面有他自己的家具，简而言之，这些设施是任何一个上流社会的英国年轻人所期望的。因为他上的是大学，从一开始就努力学习，充分利用这个机会，最终以优异的成绩拿到了学位，所以他没有染上克里希纳和尼提亚早年在上流社会的那种势利感。拉贾非常喜欢西方文化，学习希腊语和拉丁语。他专门研究欧洲和英国的历史和法律。他对西方古典音乐有了敏锐的听觉，但他对印度音乐和文化的热爱一直保持着。

    Having been drawn quickly into the inner circle around Krishna  and Nitya, Raja was held in great affection by those closest to the brothers and by the brothers themselves. He was also taken quickly  into the confidence of this circle. Leadbeater's expectations of Raja  had preceded him. He had a shy and deferential manner toward his  elders. Miss Dodge was sufficiently taken with him to confide her  growing concern over Krishna's behaviour. She would not go back  on her promised financial support to Krishna out of regard for Mrs  Besant, but she settled an even larger amount on Raja. A few years later  Krishna would suspect this and question Raja closely, but his curiosity  was given no satisfaction. 

拉贾很快被拉到克里希纳和尼提亚的核心圈子里，受到兄弟俩最亲近的人和兄弟俩本身的厚爱。他也很快得到了被这个圈子吸引。利德比特对拉贾的期望领先于他。他对长辈的态度腼腆而恭敬。道奇小姐完全被他迷住了，向他吐露了她对克里希纳的行为日益增长的担忧。出于对贝赞特夫人的尊重，她不会背弃对克里希纳的经济支持承诺，但她给了拉贾更多的钱。几年后，克里希纳对此产生了怀疑，并仔细询问拉贾，但他的好奇心没有得到满足。

    They all spent holidays either with Lady Emily and her daughters, or  the de Manziarly family, or both. According to Marcelle and Yolande,  Raja was very shy but loved to laugh with them. They teased him a  great deal, trying to frighten him with strange noises outside his room  at night. At that time Raja and young Mary Lutyens also became good  friends. They would sit under a tree reading Shelley. He and Lady Emily  developed a lifelong affection as well, although she never showed for  him, or even for Nitya, the adoration she had for Krishna. 

他们要么和艾米丽夫人和她的女儿们一起度假，要么和德・曼齐亚利一家一起度假，要么和他们两家一起度假。据Marcelle和Yolande说，拉贾很害羞，但喜欢和他们一起笑。他们经常捉弄他，晚上在他的房间外面发出奇怪的声音来吓唬他。那时，拉贾和年轻的玛丽・鲁琴斯也成了好朋友。他们会坐在树下读雪莱的书。他和艾米丽夫人也发展了一生的感情，尽管她从未对他，甚至对尼提亚表现出她对克里希纳的崇拜。

    In February 1921, Nitya, still living in London, had such a severe bout  of chicken-pox that his health was permanently weakened. Krishna had  also been ill with a sinus infection and bronchitis and was so impressed  by the de Manziarlys' naturopath doctor that when in May Nitya had  his first haemorrhage, Krishna insisted he come to France to be treated.  By September Nitya was not better, in spite of his invalid's existence.  So the two brothers and Raja went to Villars in the Swiss Alps. 
1921年2月，还住在伦敦的尼提亚患了一场严重的水痘，身体永远虚弱了。克里希纳还患有鼻窦感染和支气管炎，他对德・曼齐亚里的自然疗法医生印象深刻，以至于5月尼提亚第一次出血时，克里希纳坚持要他来法国接受治疗。到了九月，尼提亚并没有好转，尽管他是个病人。于是两兄弟和拉贾去了瑞士阿尔卑斯山的维拉斯。

    A beautiful five-thousand-acre estate with a moated castle had been  offered to Krishna by the Dutch Baron, Phillip van Pallandt. Leaving  Nitya in Raja's care in Villars, Krishna went to Holland to accept Eerde  Castle in the name of the Order of the Star. It was on this trip to Holland  that Krishna met his first ?(r)serious' love, a seventeen-year-old American  girl, Helen Knothe. It was a most inopportune time to make such an  attachment, for he and Nitya were destined to soon return to India for  the first time since they had left in 1911. 
荷兰男爵菲利普・范・帕兰特(Phillip van Pallandt)向克里希纳提供了一处拥有护城河城堡的美丽的五千英亩庄园。克里希纳把尼提亚留在维拉斯的拉贾的照顾下，去了荷兰，以明星社的名义接受了埃尔德城堡。正是在这次荷兰之行中，克里希纳遇到了他的初恋，一个17岁的美国女孩海伦・诺斯。这是一个最不合时宜的时候，因为他和尼提亚很快就要回到印度，这是他们1911年离开印度后的第一次。

    After his quiet summer, Nitya was deemed well enough to undertake  this journey. The lives of both brothers were still in the hands of their  protectors. Over major decisions neither had any control. Krishna was  miserable at leaving his new-found love and felt it a great sacrifice on  his part to do so. But if it was inopportune for Krishna, the trip would  herald disaster for Nitya, whose recovery had not been as complete as  everyone had assumed. While the brothers boarded ship for Bombay,  Raja returned peacefully to Cambridge. 

度过了平静的夏天后，尼提亚被认为身体状况良好，可以踏上这段旅程了。兄弟俩的性命仍掌握在他们的保护者手中。在重大决策上，两人都没有控制权。克里希纳对离开他的新欢感到痛苦，觉得这样做对他来说是一个巨大的牺牲。但是，如果对克里希纳来说是不合适的，那么这次旅行对尼提亚来说将预示着灾难，他的康复并不像大家想象的那样完全。当兄弟俩登上开往孟买的船时，拉贾平静地回到了剑桥。