

Back on the Path 重回正轨

    In India, everywhere they went, from Bombay to Benares, Theosophists  greeted Krishna and Nitya with warmth and excitement. The brothers  had left their homeland ten years before as shy, unsophisticated little  boys. They returned now in their Savile Row suits with elegant haircuts,  but had sufficient taste to assume Indian attire very quickly, which was  also considerably more comfortable. Krishna was flung immediately  into a display of adoration that may have existed on a smaller scale in  Europe but which would always be highly magnified in India. The sheer  numbers of people greeting him at train stations, stretching to touch his  garments or his feet, thousands of smiling brown faces rising from white  kurtas and radiant saris -all this directed at a young man of twenty-six,  who had not yet publicly (or privately) proven his proclaimed destiny was overwhelming.  George Arundale had meanwhile married the beautiful young Indian  girl, Rukmini, the childhood friend of Raja who had also been, many  years before, Krishna's neighbour. Rukmini, along with everyone else,  was full of anticipation at their arrival. She remembered that Krishna  came up to George, who tried to introduce her as his bride. But Krishna  merely interjected, ?(r)George what is wrong with you and Jinarajadasa?'  George replied, trying to sound good natured, ?(r)Oh dear what have |  done now?' It was clear to Rukmini that Krishna disapproved of both  men's marriages. This first meeting, at which she felt very much put  down, would affect Krishna's and her relationship until the end of their  lives.! 

在印度，从孟买到贝拿勒斯，神智学者们所到之处都热情而兴奋地迎接克里希纳和尼提亚。这对兄弟十年前就离开了家乡，那时还是害羞、天真的小男孩。他们现在回来了，穿着萨维尔街的西装，留着优雅的发型，但有足够的品味，很快就穿上了印度服装，也舒服得多。克里希纳立即被抛入一种崇拜的展示中，这种崇拜在欧洲可能规模较小，但在印度总是会被高度放大。在火车站迎接他的人数之多，伸手触摸他的衣服或他的脚，成千上万张微笑的棕色面孔从白色的kurtas和闪闪发光的纱丽中浮现出来――这一切都是针对一个26岁的年轻人，他还没有公开(或私下)证明他所宣告的命运是压倒性的。与此同时，乔治・阿伦代尔娶了年轻漂亮的印度女孩鲁克米尼，她是拉贾儿时的朋友，多年前也是克里希纳的邻居。鲁克米尼(Rukmini)和其他人一样，对他们的到来充满了期待。她记得克里希纳走到乔治面前，乔治试图把她介绍为他的新娘。但克里希纳只是插嘴说:“乔治，你和吉纳拉贾达萨怎么了?”乔治回答，尽量装出和气的样子，“哦，天哪，你都干了些什么?”鲁克米尼很清楚，克里希纳不赞成两人的婚姻。第一次见面时，她感到非常沮丧，这将影响克里希纳和她的关系，直到他们生命的尽头。

    Nitya had persuaded Krishna that they should attempt a reconciliation  with the father they had not seen for ten years. Krishna, characteristically,  would say later that he remembered nothing of the meeting, which we  can imagine was not too happy. Nitya wrote to Marcelle de Manziarly  that they had found a gaga father and a mad younger brother. 

尼提亚说服克里希纳，他们应该尝试和他们十年未见的父亲和解。克里希纳的特点是，他后来会说，他不记得那次会面，我们可以想象，那次会面不太愉快。尼提亚写信给马塞勒・德・曼齐亚利，说他们找到了一个疯狂的父亲和一个疯狂的弟弟。

    From India the brothers went with Jinarajadasa to Australia, via  Colombo. Travelling on European ships in those days was often an  ordeal for Indians, especially those like Krishna and Nitya, who, for  the most part, had been protected, but were sometimes unavoidably  exposed to hostile European bigotry. Krishna was by nature shy, as  many Indians are, shy and non-aggressive. He appeared to meet the  challenge of his new role with poise but was sometimes inwardly  miserable when required to be on public display. He often spoke of  that and similar voyages, his remembered unhappiness thinly masked  by the sardonic humour of twenty years' hindsight. It is possible that  his inward nature and his public life were already at odds and causing  a division in his personality that would be the source of many problems  in his later relationships. 
从印度出发，兄弟俩跟着吉纳拉贾达萨取道科伦坡去了澳大利亚。在那些日子里，乘坐欧洲船只旅行对印度人来说往往是一种折磨，尤其是像克里希纳和尼提亚这样的人，他们在很大程度上得到了保护，但有时不可避免地暴露在充满敌意的欧洲偏见之下。克里希纳天生害羞，就像许多印度人一样，害羞而不好斗。他似乎泰然自若地迎接了新角色带来的挑战，但当被要求公开展示时，他有时内心很痛苦。他经常谈起那次和类似的航行，他记忆中的不幸被二十年后的后见之明的讽刺幽默淡薄地掩盖了。很可能他的内在本性和他的公共生活已经发生了冲突，导致了他个性的分裂，这将是他后来人际关系中许多问题的根源。

    With a little imagination one could visualize the slender, graceful  young man; the beauty of his face with the slightly aquiline nose, the  full mouth that so easily revealed his changing aspects, the large girafte  eyes with straight long lashes that veiled them from the over curious.  One could feel him torn between his ineradicable Brahmin pride -his  scorn for his fellow passengers' opinions, and his sense of inadequacy  in living up to a role he had not chosen for himself⌒ wondering how  he could face the multitudes whom he knew would come to meet him  on his arrival in Perth, the first stop of this Australian tour. 
稍加想象，你就能想象出那个身材修长、举止优雅的年轻人;他那张漂亮的脸，微微翘起的鹰钩鼻，饱满的嘴巴，很容易露出他多变的面貌，长颈鹿般的大眼睛，长长的直睫毛，遮住了他的眼睛，使他看不出过分的古怪。你可以感觉到他在他那根深蒂固的婆罗门的骄傲――他对其他乘客意见的蔑视，以及他对自己没有选择的角色的不胜任感之间左右为难:他不知如何面对他知道在他抵达澳大利亚之旅的第一站――珀斯时将会来迎接他的人群。

    On shipboard, he witnessed a small humiliation of Jinarajadasa who,  when he took a seat on a sofa next to an Englishman, was rudely told  to move on. Krishna admitted to an impulse of violence, which he  managed to restrain. At times, he felt the public speeches and the  devoted crowds went against his nature. There was another side of  him, however, which steadied his performance. Like many public  figures he learned that energy could flow from the crowds to him as  well as the other way. 

在船上，他目睹了吉纳拉贾达萨(Jinarajadasa)的一个小羞辱，当他在一个英国人旁边的沙发上坐下时，被粗鲁地告知走开。克里希纳承认自己有一种暴力的冲动，但他设法克制住了。有时，他觉得公开演讲和忠诚的人群违背了他的本性。然而，他还有另一面，这让他的表现更加稳定。像许多公众人物一样，他了解到能量可以从人群流向他，也可以从他流向人群。

    The Australia of that era, with its strong racial bigotry on the one hand  and the pioneering spirit on the other, which drew many adventurous  spiritual seekers to Theosophy, was a true testing ground for a young  world teacher and this first trip established him in many hearts as that. 

那个时代的澳大利亚，一方面有着强烈的种族偏见，另一方面又有开拓精神，吸引了许多勇于冒险的精神寻求者来神智学，这是一个真正的试验场，对于一个年轻的世界老师来说，这第一次旅行使他在许多人心中建立了这样的地位。

    After stops in Perth and Melbourne they arrived in Sydney for  the Theosophical Convention. Here they were warmly welcomed by  Leadbeater, whom they had not seen for ten years and who had  apparently mellowed since the Adyar days. Where once he had avoided  women, they now found the old man kind to the old ladies and admitting  young girls into his circle. 
在珀斯和墨尔本停留后，他们抵达悉尼参加神智学大会。在这里，他们受到了利德比特的热情欢迎，他们已经有十年没见到他了，他显然比阿迪亚时代成熟了许多。以前他对女人避之不及，现在他们发现这位老人对老太太很和蔼，也接纳年轻姑娘进入他的圈子。

    But they were soon to find some very un-Theosophical happenings  were going on around the Convention.  Some dissidents had formed a Back to Blavatsky movement: Theoso- phy without personality cults, the Liberal Catholic Church, initiations, 
    the Order of the Star, or the coming. The last would have eliminated  Krishna, or rather his role as vehicle for the world teacher. In future  Krishna's own position would come to resemble on some counts this  divergence. But at this time, his basic loyalty to Leadbeater was still  intact. This must have made all the more painful the naked vulgarity of  a renewed uproar against his old protector, Leadbeater. All the previous  immorality charges were rehashed. All, according to Krishna, were  lies. He did not waver in his defence. With Nitya's support, Krishna  upheld absolutely Leadbeater's purity, although he would make no  such commitment to his clairvoyance. Some years before, Mrs Besant's  doubts about Leadbeater had been just the reverse. Much later, when  Krishna himself turned against Leadbeater, it was not on grounds of  morality. 

但他们很快就发现公会周围发生了一些与神智论无关的事情。一些持不同政见者组织了一场“回到布拉瓦茨基”运动:没有个人崇拜的神学、自由天主教会、启蒙、
明星社，或者即将到来最后一种方法会消灭克里希纳，或者更确切地说，是消灭他作为世界导师的载体的角色。在未来，克里希纳自己的立场将在某些方面与这种分歧相似。但在这个时候，他对利德比特的基本忠诚仍然没有改变。这一定使反对他的老保护人利德比特的赤裸裸的粗俗的新骚动更加痛苦。所有先前的不道德指控都被重提。根据克里希纳的说法，这一切都是谎言。他毫不动摇地为自己辩护。在尼提亚的支持下，克里希纳绝对坚持利德比特的纯洁，尽管他不会对自己的洞察力做出这样的承诺。几年前，贝赞特夫人对利德比特的怀疑正好相反。很久以后，当克里希纳本人转而反对利德比特时，并不是出于道德原因。

    In Sydney a doctor diagnosed that Nitya, again in a weak condition,  had tuberculosis in his right and left lungs. This was a terrible blow.  Nitya was sent immediately to the mountains. Krishna accompanied  him, but not before he had met and been mildly attracted to an English  girl, Ruth Roberts, who was among the young circle around Leadbeater.  Ruth was tall, dark and stunning, and Krishna's attraction to her did not  go unnoticed, but he was also aware of the rumours and gossip that  floated incessantly around him. He was, after all, as confused as any  young man who is torn between two attractive girls, Helen, his first  real love left behind in Holland, the other beside him in Sydney. On  top of this common dilemma was the realization that he was, in fact,  expected to renounce any such feelings altogether. 
在悉尼，一名医生诊断出，同样身体虚弱的尼提亚的左右肺都患有肺结核。这是一个可怕的打击。尼提亚立即被派往山区。克里希纳陪着他，但在那之前，他遇到了一个英国女孩露丝・罗伯茨，并对她产生了轻微的吸引力，她是利德比特周围年轻圈子中的一员。露丝身材高挑，皮肤黝黑，令人惊叹，克里希纳对她的吸引力不容忽视，但他也意识到周围不断流传的谣言和流言蜚语。毕竟，他就像任何一个在两个漂亮女孩之间左右为难的年轻人一样困惑，海伦是他在荷兰留下的第一个真爱，另一个在悉尼。在这种共同的困境之上，他意识到，事实上，他被期望完全放弃这种感情。

    After only ten days in the mountains, where he had begun to feel  better, Nitya had to return to Sydney with Krishna to greet Mrs Besant  when she arrived. 
在山里只呆了十天，他就开始感觉好些了，尼提亚不得不和克里希纳一起回到悉尼，迎接贝赞特太太的到来。

    The harassment of Leadbeater and those close to him continued,  both in the press and on the streets. The brothers were referred to  as ?(r)dandy-coloured coons', their well-cut suits scoffed at. People nudged  each other, pointed out Krishna as the messiah, ?(r)that fellow with thirty  lives', and laughed loudly. Krishna said he would have laughed too  if he had not been involved, indicating that inwardly he was already  beginning to question his position. Leadbeater must have discerned  Krishna's misery. A few days later he comforted him with a message  from the Master Kuthumi, which stated that the Masters had the highest  hopes for Krishna, but that he must work hard to find his true self, to  be tolerant, and to help others. 
在新闻界和街头，对利德比特和他身边的人的骚扰仍在继续。这对兄弟被称为“纨绔子弟”，他们剪裁得体的西装遭到嘲笑。人们互相推搡，指出克里希纳是弥赛亚，“那个有三十条命的家伙”，大声笑了起来。克里希纳说，如果他没有参与其中，他也会笑，这表明他内心已经开始质疑自己的地位。利德比特一定看出了利德比特的痛苦。几天后，他给克里希纳带来一条来自库图米大师的信息，安慰他说，大师们对克里希纳寄予了最高的希望，但克里希纳必须努力寻找真实的自我，要宽容，要帮助他人。

    Krishna took to heart this advice. He talked with Mrs Besant and told 
    her that he wanted to drop all Star and Theosophical work for a while 
    and to study seriously philosophy, economics, religion and education,  that he wanted to improve his mind and also to develop in himself  love, tolerance and compassion. 
克里希纳把这个建议牢记在心。他和贝赞特太太谈了谈，告诉了她
他告诉她，他想暂时放弃所有的明星社和神智学的工作
并认真学习哲学、经济、宗教和教育，他想提高自己的思想，也想培养自己的爱、宽容和同情心。

    Nitya's health failed to improve, and it was deemed imperative by  those close to him that, as soon as possible, he return to Switzerland. 
尼提亚的健康状况没有好转，他身边的人认为，他必须尽快回到瑞士。

    As the voyage via India and the Red Sea would be too hot, Mr  Warrington, the President of the Theosophical Society in America, who  was then in Sydney, suggested they go via California and break the trip  in the Ojai Valley, where he had a friend who could accommodate them  for the summer. This unscheduled detour would have a significant effect  on both their lives.  
 由于途经印度和红海的航程太热，当时身在悉尼的美国神智学会主席沃灵顿先生建议他们绕道加利福尼亚，在奥海山谷中途休息，他有一个朋友可以在那里为他们提供夏天的住宿。这次意外的绕道会对他们两人的生活产生重大影响。