   
6 California 加利福尼亚
 
    The two weeks' voyage across the Pacific, while rough enough to have  caused Nitya seasickness, appeared to improve the condition of his lungs.  Krishna, never subject to travel sickness, had found the voyage dull.  Perhaps unpleasant would be a better word. In spite of Mr Warrington's  presence, he was plagued by the unwanted attention of curious women  on the one hand and offensive men on the other. One Australian asked  belligerently why these ?(r)dark men' were allowed to travel first class. 

横跨太平洋的两周航程虽然足以让尼提亚晕船，但似乎改善了他的肺部状况。克里希纳从来不会晕船，他觉得这次航行很沉闷。也许不愉快是一个更好的词。尽管沃灵顿先生在场，他还是被好奇的女人和无礼的男人的不必要的关注所困扰。一位澳大利亚人挑衅地问道，为什么这些黑皮肤的人被允许坐头等舱。

    All this unpleasantness dropped behind him as the steamship entered  the Bay and there, rising above the summer fog that lapped at the city's  foundations, Krishna saw the hills of San Francisco. 
当轮船驶入海湾时，所有的不快都被抛在脑后。在那里，越过笼罩着城市地基的夏雾，克里希纳看到了旧金山的山峦。

    They were met by a Theosophist who was also a Professor at Berkeley.  She had invited them to stay with her. The next day, which happened  to be the Fourth of July, they ferried across the bay to Oakland, where  they caught the train to the University of California at Berkeley. The  campanile tower reached toward a clear sky and the pale grey granite  buildings gleamed in the sunlight. July was mid-winter in Sydney. This  perfect California summer day, with mild cooling breezes from the  Pacific, wrought immediate changes in Nitya's health and in both their  spirits. Krishna's first mingling with Americans was on a campus that  would still be a stronghold of racial tolerance and democratic idealism  more than half a century later. Berkeley on Independence Day might  well have had a heightened atmosphere that Krishna could not fully  grasp. He was, however, instantly smitten with what he saw, and  would not forget this first impression of America: the open forthright  manners of the students, who, boys and girls alike, looked him straight  in the eye; the atmosphere of freedom and equality. He liked the attitude  between men and women. He could drop the self-consciousness about  his own background which stemmed from childhood memories of  English superiority. Mixed with his enthusiasm for this American  institution was a yearning for India to have such a beautiful university  on its soil. At that time he felt that Indians were more suited than any  people on earth to a true scholastic atmosphere. (When he came to know more Indians in academic settings, he would display frequent  impatience with the rigidity of their conditioning.) He would always  reveal a certain confusion in much of his attitude toward education. 
他们遇到了一位神智学者，她也是伯克利大学的教授。她邀请他们和她住在一起。第二天，正好是7月4日，他们乘船穿过海湾来到奥克兰，在那里他们搭上了去加州大学伯克利分校的火车。钟楼伸向晴朗的天空，浅灰色的花岗岩建筑在阳光下闪闪发光。7月是悉尼的隆冬时节，同时是完美的加州夏日，伴随着太平洋吹来的温和的凉风，尼提亚的健康和两人的精神立刻发生了变化。克里希纳第一次与美国人交往是在一个校园里，半个多世纪后，这个校园仍然是种族宽容和民主理想主义的大本营。独立日那天伯克利的气氛很可能是克里希纳无法完全理解的。然而，他立刻被眼前的景象迷住了，而且永远不会忘记对美国的第一印象:学生们坦诚直率的举止，无论男女，都直视着他的眼睛；自由和平等的气氛。他喜欢男女之间的态度。他可以放弃对自己背景的自我意识，这种自我意识源于童年对英国优越的记忆。除了对这所美国大学的热情之外，他还渴望印度能在自己的土地上拥有这样一所美丽的大学。当时，他觉得印度人比世界上任何民族都更适合真正的学术氛围。(当他在学术环境中认识了更多的印度人时，他经常对他们僵化的条例表现出不耐烦。)他在对待教育的态度上总是表现出某种困惑。

    The following evening they boarded the night train for Ventura, three  hundred and fifty miles south. It was unfortunate that most of this first  trip through California would be travelled in darkness. But they could  at least see the dawn silhouette the coastal mountain range and the first  light of that summer morning shimmering on the Pacific Ocean. They  arrived by mid-morning at the small farm centre of Ventura. There they  were met by a tall dark-haired woman with an aristocratic bearing and  accent, a strong face and impeccable clothes; altogether an improbable  and unanticipated figure standing in that small rural station. This was  Mary Tudor Gray, who, as a descendent of an old New England family,  felt herself as much a ?(r)brahmin' as her two young Indian guests. She  would be their hostess for many months. 
第二天晚上，他们登上了开往南面350英里的文图拉的夜车。不幸的是，这第一次穿越加利福尼亚的旅行大部分时间都是在黑暗中进行的。但他们至少可以看到海岸山脉的黎明轮廓，以及那个夏天早晨在太平洋上闪烁的第一缕阳光。他们在上午10点左右到达文图拉的小农场中心。在那里，迎接他们的是一个高个子黑发女人，有着贵族的仪态和口音，面容坚毅，衣着无可挑剔；站在那个乡村小站里的，完全是一个不可思议的、出乎意料的人物。这就是玛丽・都铎・格雷，作为新英格兰一个古老家庭的后裔，她觉得自己和她的两个年轻的印度客人一样，都是婆罗门。她要做他们几个月的女主人。

    Ojai lay fifteen miles inland and the dry daytime heat, dispelled at  night by the sea air, was just descending upon the valley. Mr Warrington  burst into song, ?(r)Ojai ⌒ Ojai,?± as they rounded the final turn and saw  the spread of dark green orange groves surrounded by the protective  sage-covered hills. 
奥海位于内陆15英里处，白天的干热，虽然晚上会被海上的空气驱散，但是现在正降临到山谷里。沃灵顿先生突然唱起歌来: "奥海, 奥海"。他们转过最后一个弯，看到深绿色的橘子树林被长满了鼠尾草的小山包围着。

    At the eastern end of the valley beneath a sheer oblong bluff called  Topa Topa lay Mary Gray's estate, nestled against low foothills scored  by miles of horse and footpaths, maintained by neighbouring Thacher  School. 
在山谷的东端，在一个叫做托帕托帕的陡峭的长方形悬崖下，坐落着玛丽・格雷的庄园，坐落在低矮的丘陵上，丘陵上有几英里的马和人行道，由邻近的撒切尔学校维护。

    The valley might have been set in any number of places in India with  its softly contoured hills and dry underbrush. But closer familiarity  would soon distinguish its virginal quality. Few people had ever lived  therc. Some parts of the Ojai had been sacred to the Chumash Indians.  In 1922 there were only a few hundred people scattered over fifty square  miles, mostly orange ranchers.
 这个山谷可能在印度的任何地方都有它柔和的丘陵和干燥的灌木丛。但更熟悉的人很快就会发现它的处女特质。很少有人住在那里。奥海的一些地方对丘马什印第安人来说是神圣的。1922年，这里只有几百人，分散在50平方英里的土地上，大部分是桔子农场主。

    Although her house was large, Mary Gray had turned over one of  her small rustic guest cottages to the brothers. While she did not want  to risk exposing her young children to Nitya's tuberculosis, she did  share with them her excellent vegetarian cook. They took delight in  the fresh fruits and vegetables that were in plentiful supply. There were  horses available for riding and walks up the stream that would generally  run dry by midsummer. But this year there was still a clear trickle to  fill the rocky pools. Here they took hip baths in that untrammelled  paradise. 
虽然玛丽・格雷的房子很大，但她已经把自己的一间小农舍租给了兄弟俩。虽然她不想冒险让年幼的孩子们感染尼提亚的肺结核，但她确实和他们分享了她出色的素食厨艺。他们很喜欢供应充足的新鲜水果和蔬菜。这里有马可以骑，也可以沿着通常在仲夏就会干涸的小溪散步。但今年仍有清澈的涓涓细流填满了岩石池。在这里，他们在无拘无束的天堂里泡臀浴。

    In spite of all this healthful living, Nitya suddenly took a turn for  the worse, running a temperature night and day. Krishna felt the strain of caring for him and complained that his brother was temperamental,  irritable and would not do anything he told him. 
尽管有这些健康的生活方式，尼提亚的病情突然恶化，日夜发烧。克里希纳感到照顾他的压力，抱怨他的兄弟喜怒无常，易怒，不听他的吩咐。

    Mr Warrington had arranged for his daughter to help out with the two  young men. But this task soon proved too much of a burden for her.  It was Erma who came up with a solution. 
沃灵顿先生安排他的女儿帮忙照看这两个年轻人，但是这个任务很快就证明对她来说负担太大了。是爱玛想出了解决办法。

    For the past three winters, Rosalind had been working and living with  her mother in Hollywood. During the summers Mary Gray, who had  become very fond of Erma's family, offered them her summer house  in Montecito and encouraged Rosalind to take summer courses in the  state college in Santa Barbara. Mary Gray felt she should further her  education, and had even offered to send her to Radcliffe, if she would  complete the necessary requirements. In addition to her courses, Rosalind  entered the summer tennis tournaments. Tennis had always been her  greatest passion. Her summers in Buffalo had been spent on the courts,  perfecting a form which was not conventional, but which was effective  enough to have won the attention of the Lawn Tennis Association in  the Santa Barbara tournaments. They wanted to take her on and train  her. Once by another player's default she came up against Helen Wills,  then in her prime, who sportingly allowed her one game a set. Neither  Erma nor Mary Gray approved of a tennis future for Rosalind. They  felt she had too much potential to waste her life on sport. 
在过去的三个冬天里，罗莎琳德一直和母亲一起在好莱坞工作和生活。夏天的时候，玛丽・格雷非常喜欢爱玛一家，把她在蒙特西托的避暑别墅给了他们，并鼓励罗莎琳德去圣巴巴拉的州立大学上暑期课程。玛丽・格雷觉得她应该继续深造，甚至提出如果她能满足必要的要求，就送她去拉德克利夫。除了她的课程，罗莎琳德参加了夏季网球锦标赛。网球一直是她最大的爱好。她在布法罗的夏天都是在球场上度过的，完善了一种非传统的打法，但这种打法足够有效，在圣巴巴拉锦标赛上赢得了草坪网球协会的注意。他们想要接受她并训练她。有一次，由于另一名球员的缺席，她遇到了当时正处于巅峰时期的海伦・威尔斯(Helen Wills)，后者很有风度地让她一局。爱玛和玛丽・格雷都不赞成罗莎琳德将来打网球。他们觉得她很有潜力，不应该把生命浪费在运动上。

    But Rosalind was thoroughly enjoying her usual summer studies and  tennis in Montecito. She did not share Erma's Theosophical interests.  She was nineteen, high-spirited and had a fun-loving nature. She was  devoted to her mother, Sophia, who was wise enough to give her  youngest daughter free rein. Sophia trusted Rosalind's intrinsically  generous and truthful character to pull her through whatever difficulties  her impulsive spirit might lead her into. 
但罗莎琳德在蒙特西托非常享受她平常的暑期学习和网球。她不像爱玛那样对神智学感兴趣。她十九岁，意气风发，生性好玩儿。她很爱她的母亲索菲娅，索菲娅很聪明，给了她最小的女儿足够的自由。索菲娅相信罗莎琳德本质上的慷慨和诚实的性格会帮助她度过她冲动的精神可能导致的任何困难。

    Erma arrived one day with the suggestion that Rosalind replace Mr  Warrington's daughter in the care of two young Indians who had  recently arrived in Ojai. It was typical of Rosalind, playful though  she was, to give up her own interests and a delightful summer to care  for two young men she had never met ⌒ one of them quite ill. 
一天，爱玛来了，她建议罗莎琳德代替沃灵顿先生的女儿，去照顾两个刚到奥海的印度年轻人。这是罗莎琳德的典型特点，尽管她很爱玩，但她放弃了自己的兴趣和一个愉快的夏天来照顾两个她从未见过的年轻人――其中一个病得很重。

    Rosalind never forgot that first meeting. Nitya took her hand between his, looked into her eyes and said, ?(r)Why, I know you,?± and even then she knew exactly what he meant. She did not notice his blindness in one eye, the frailty of his body or the feverish flush from which he most often suffered. She heard the beautiful timbre of his voice and the exuberance of his laugh. She was touched by the warmth of his smile    and was instantly drawn to him. She scarcely noticed Krishna, who was  almost always the centre of everyone's attention. It would not have  occurred to her, or to anyone else, to wonder what his feelings toward  her might have been. To the ailing Nitya, this vital and warm American  girl, fresh from a summer on the tennis courts, her fair skin slightly  tanned and her blue eyes radiant, held a special fascination. Westerners  often seem uncouth to Indians, especially to Brahmins who have a rare  fastidiousness in their personal cleanliness. (It was ironic that Leadbeater,  an Englishman, should have found it necessary to make such a point of  training the brothers to bathe properly, but that was probably due to  their neglected condition.) Nitya would complain later to Rosalind of  the unfastidiousness of the English girls he had known, and how he had  been put off a close relationship with one of them for this reason. 
罗莎琳德永远不会忘记第一次见面。尼提亚握住她的手，他看着她的眼睛说：“为什么，我认识你”，即便如此她完全明白他的意思。她没有注意到他一只眼睛失明，身体的虚弱和常患的发烧是他经常受的苦。她听到了他声音的优美音色和热情的笑声。她被他温暖的微笑感动了立刻被他吸引住了。她几乎没有注意到克里希纳，虽然他几乎总是大家关注的焦点。无论是她，还是其他任何人，都不会想到他对她的感情究竟是怎样的。对生病的尼提亚来说，这个充满活力和温暖的美国女孩，刚刚在网球场度过一个夏天，她白皙的皮肤微微晒黑，蓝眼睛闪闪发光，有着一种特殊的魅力。在印度人看来，西方人常常显得粗鲁，尤其是在对个人清洁有着罕见的一丝不苟的婆罗门看来。(具有讽刺意味的是，英国人利德比特竟然认为有必要如此强调训练兄弟俩正确洗澡，但这可能是因为他们的状况被忽视了。)

    Sophia had imparted her meticulous sense of cleanliness to her four  daughters. Rosalind's upbringing as a vegetarian, due to a quixotic  whim of her father and her passionate love for animals, were further  attributes in this new relationship. Above all, she had an innate talent  for mothering. A sick or hurt creature, no matter what its species, drew  her immediate care and instinct for healing. She poured into Nitya not  only love but vitality. 
索菲亚把她一丝不苟的清洁意识传给了她的四个女儿。由于父亲堂吉诃德式的突发奇想，罗莎琳德从小就是一个素食主义者，她对动物的热爱也成为了这段新关系的进一步因素。最重要的是，她有做母亲的天赋。一个生病或受伤的生物，不管是什么物种，都会立刻得到她的本能的照顾和治愈。她不仅给尼提亚注入了爱，也注入了活力。

    Krishna was relieved by his brother's response to Rosalind's care.  Nitya did exactly what she told him to do. Krishna was also immenscly  impressed with what he thought were her natural American capabilities. 
看到弟弟对罗莎琳德照顾的反应，克里希纳松了一口气。尼提亚完全照她说的做了。克里希纳也对她与生俱来的美国能力印象深刻。

    The very first dinner she cooked for them, however, was a disaster.  Rosalind had prepared a cheese souffl¨|, imploring the two young men  to appear on time for dinner. The brothers quite forgot about this and  took off for an afternoon walk, arriving late. They were confronted by  a fallen souffl¨| and a crestfallen cook. 
然而，她为他们做的第一顿饭就糟透了。罗莎琳德准备了奶酪蛋奶酥，恳求这两个年轻人准时赴宴。兄弟俩完全忘记了这件事，下午出去散步，迟到了。他们面对的是一个倒下的蛋奶酥和一个垂头丧气的厨师。

    It is surprising that Rosalind's family did not share Mary Gray's quite  reasonable concern for this close association with a tubercular patient,  Erma may well have let caution be swept aside by the extraordinary  opportunity for her young sister to care for someone so close to the  vehicle, but Sophia did not believe in all this. One can only wonder.  My grandmother was never a person who insisted on having her own  way, and perhaps she had her own kind of faith in the good sense and  good health of her youngest daughter. 
令人惊讶的是，罗莎琳德的家人并没有像玛丽・格雷一样，对她和一个肺结核病人的密切联系感到非常合理的担忧。爱玛很可能会把谨慎放在一边，因为她的妹妹有机会照顾离载体这么近的人，但索菲亚不相信这一切。人们只能好奇了。我的祖母从来不是一个固执己见的人，也许她对小女儿的理智和健康有自己的一种信念。

    In any event, Rosalind never suffered any ill effects from the love  between her and Nitya. Perhaps because she only knew him for three  years before his death, this love, with its innocent and magical quality,  haunted not only her and her marriage, but also my childhood. Such  love, eternized by death, may not survive the realities of a living  relationship. 
无论如何，罗莎琳德从未因她和尼提亚的爱情而受到任何不良影响。也许是因为她在他去世前才认识他三年，这种天真而神奇的爱情不仅困扰着她和她的婚姻，也困扰着我的童年。这种因死亡而永恒的爱，可能无法在一段活生生的关系中幸存下来。