7 The 'Process' 过程

    While Nitya had at last found the love for which he so long yearned,  Krishna was left very much on his own. In Ojai he was without his old  friends, the de Manziarlys, Helen or Lady Emily. While he rejoiced in  the improvement that Rosalind's care brought to Nitya, he too longed  for comfort and affection. 
尼提亚终于找到了他渴望已久的爱情，克里希纳却只能靠自己了。在奥海，他没有老朋友，德・曼齐亚利夫妇、海伦和爱米莉夫人。虽然他为罗莎琳德的照顾给尼提亚带来的好转感到高兴，但他也渴望得到安慰和关爱。

    Theosophists of that period believed in sublimating sex, even within  marriage. It was certainly assumed that Krishna would be chaste. At  the age of twenty-seven he had never had a fulfilled love relationship.  His love for Helen was on a ?(r)higher' or at least an entirely ?(r)pure'  plane. According to Helen's own testimony it was never anything else.  During a visit to Ojai in 1984, Helen Knothe (the recently widowed  Mrs Scott Nearing) stated that she and Krishna had sometimes lain  together in bed but had never had sex. She doubted that he had ever  had sex with anyone.! What symptoms might emerge from suppressed  sexuality in a highly sensitive, imaginative, and warm-natured young  man, is a matter for clinical conjecture, but in the light of what soon  transpired conjecture cannot be totally ignored. Leadbeater had evidently  offered advice along these lines to other boys, which, as we have seen,  brought him serious trouble. Krishna, however, always maintained that  Leadbeater had never touched on such matters with him or Nitya. It  must have been assumed by all his elders that he was on quite another  plane from most young men. 
那个时期的神智学者相信性的升华，甚至在婚姻中。人们当然假定克里希纳是贞洁的。27岁时，他从未有过一段圆满的爱情。他对海伦的爱是在一个更高的层面上，或者至少是一个完全纯洁的层面上。根据海伦自己的证词，从来没有别的事。在1984年访问奥海期间，海伦・诺斯(最近丧偶的斯科特・阿斯特夫人)表示，她和克里希纳有时在床上躺在一起，但从未发生过性关系。她怀疑他是否和任何人发生过性关系。在一个高度敏感、富有想象力和热情的年轻人身上，压抑的性欲可能会出现什么症状，这是一个临床猜测的问题，但鉴于很快发生的事情，猜测不能完全被忽视。利德比特显然也向其他孩子提出过类似的建议，正如我们所看到的，这给他带来了严重的麻烦。然而，克里希纳一直坚持说，利德比特从来没有和他或尼提亚谈过这些事情。他的长辈们一定都认为他和大多数年轻人是完全不同的。

    While Krishna would often state that neither the pleasant nor the  unpleasant experiences of life touched him, it is difficult to believe  that the recent events in Sydney had not shaken him. The crudity of  language and behaviour to which he had been subjected, the charges  hurled against his old protector, Leadbeater, must have distressed him  to some degree. He was also faced with the graphic illustration of how  even an exalted member of the Theosophical Society could suffer from  a tarnished reputation. He and Nitya had both come to Leadbeater's  defence, but the whole affair had shaken Krishna's view about much  of his Theosophical world. 
虽然克里希纳经常说，生活中的愉快或不愉快的经历都没有触动他，但很难相信最近在悉尼发生的事件没有动摇他。他所受到的粗鲁的言语和行为，以及对他的老保护人利德比特的指责，一定在某种程度上使他苦恼。他还面临着这样一个生动的例子:即使是神智学会的尊贵成员，也会因名誉受损而受苦。他和尼提亚都为利德比特辩护，但整个事件动摇了克里希纳对他的神智学世界的看法。
 
    Krishna also had health problems, real or imagined. A Theosophist  and Swedish chiropractor, Dr John Ingelman, had introduced Nitya to  Dr Strong in Los Angeles, a medical disciple of the famous Dr Abrams,  to try the Abrams diagnosis and treatment. Dr Albert Abrams had  the highest medical qualifications and was not generally considered,  in his time, a quack. He claimed he could cure tuberculosis, cancer  and syphilis by means of an Oscilloclast machine which sent electrical  pulses through the affected areas. He believed that smallpox vaccination  was the cause of most diseases including syphilis, which he thought to  be far more widespread than people realized. With a few drops of the  patient's blood he diagnosed these diseases and prescribed the treatment  on his machine. Many celebrities, including the writer Upton Sinclair,  swore by his cures. Dr Abrams diagnosed Nitya as having tuberculosis  in his left lung and both kidneys and syphilis in his spleen. After two  weeks of the treatment the new blood tests showed all these germs had  disappeared from his body. Krishna, totally convinced by this, then  sent in samples of his blood. He was told he had cancer in his intestines and left lung and syphilis in his spleen and nose. After treatment on  the Oscilloclast machine, he felt much better. He was wise enough,  however, not to mention the diagnosis of syphilis to anyone but Lady  Emily. 
克里希纳也有健康问题，无论是真实的还是想象的。一位神智学家和瑞典脊椎指压治疗师约翰・英格曼博士把尼提亚介绍给洛杉矶的斯特朗医生，他是著名的艾布拉姆斯医生的医学弟子，尝试艾布拉姆斯医生的诊断和治疗方法。艾伯特・艾布拉姆斯医生拥有最高的医疗资格，在他那个时代，人们通常不认为他是个庸医。他声称，他可以通过向患病部位发送电脉冲的Oscilloclast机器来治愈肺结核、癌症和梅毒。他认为天花疫苗是导致大多数疾病的原因，包括梅毒，他认为梅毒比人们意识到的要广泛得多。只需几滴病人的血，他就能诊断出这些疾病，并在他的机器上开出治疗方案。包括作家厄普顿・辛克莱在内的许多名人都对他的治疗方法深信不疑。艾布拉姆斯医生诊断尼提亚的左肺和双肾患有肺结核，脾脏患有梅毒。经过两周的治疗，新的血液检查显示所有的细菌都从他的身体里消失了。克里希纳对此深信不疑，于是送来了他的血样。医生告诉他，他的肠子和左肺得了癌症，脾脏和鼻子得了梅毒。在Oscilloclast机器上治疗后，他感觉好多了。不过，他很聪明，除了爱米丽夫人之外，没有把梅毒的诊断告诉任何人。

    In spite of the optimistic reports on Nitya, it would be found in later  tests that he still had spots of tuberculosis on his lungs; stress of any kind  would set him back considerably. He was still an invalid and Rosalind  cared for him tenderly every day. The brothers had moved to the little  cottage where Sophia had once stayed. They enjoyed the increased sense  of privacy here and thought the cottage had the atmosphere ofa small  ashram. In fact they preferred not to have any strangers around. So  Rosalind helped regularly with the cooking, coming over by day from  Mary Gray's house next door where she was staying. Dr Ingelman  had, for those times, an advanced knowledge of nutrition, especially as  applied to a vegetarian diet, and his guidance was invaluable to Rosalind.  Krishna did his best to help. He disliked the appearance of being waited  on and would always be the first on his feet to offer assistance. 
尽管关于尼提亚的报告很乐观，但在后来的检查中发现，他的肺部仍然有肺结核斑点;任何形式的压力都会使他大大倒退。他仍然是一个病人，罗莎琳德每天温柔地照顾他。兄弟俩搬到了索菲亚曾经住过的小屋。他们很享受在这里增加的隐私感，觉得小屋有一种小修行所的气氛。事实上，他们不喜欢周围有陌生人。所以罗莎琳德经常帮忙做饭，白天从玛丽・格雷住的隔壁家过来。在那个时代，英格尔曼博士在营养学方面有着先进的知识，尤其是在素食方面，他的指导对罗莎琳德来说是无价之宝。克里希纳尽了最大的努力去帮助。他不喜欢别人伺候他，总是第一个站起来提供帮助。

    The vicissitudes in Nitya's health did not prevent Rosalind and the  two brothers from having some very good times. She did not see Krishna  as a special person, certainly not as a world teacher. But alongside her  love for Nitya, she developed a great fondness for his older brother.  They read aloud and memorized Milton, Keats, Shelley and Krishna's  favourite, the Song of Songs. They walked together in the foothills  and on very hot days went with the Gray family to the beach. 
尼提亚健康状况的变化并没有妨碍罗莎琳德和两个兄弟度过一段非常愉快的时光。她没有把克里希纳看作一个特殊的人，当然也不是一个世界导师。但除了对尼提亚的爱，她还对他的哥哥产生了极大的好感。他们大声朗读并背诵弥尔顿、济慈、雪莱和克里希纳最喜欢的《雅歌》。他们一起在山脚下散步，在非常炎热的日子里，他们和格雷一家一起去海滩。

 Ever since he had received the Master Kuthumi's message in Sydney,  Krishna had shown signs of a changed attitude about the Masters,  Theosophy and his role in ?(r)the Work'. Now he took an even more serious  turn, perhaps due in part to the absence of luxuries and distractions  afforded him by upper-class European and English life. He was also,  for the first time, cut off from the vigilance of his protectors. He  was freer than he had ever been and in an atmosphere conducive to  spiritual concentration. He appears to have made the most of this and  took up meditating regularly, predictably setting aside his intentions  for intellectual improvement. 
自从他在悉尼收到库图米大师的信息后，克里希纳对大师、通神学和他在“工作”中的角色表现出了改变态度的迹象。现在，他开始了更加严肃的转变，也许部分原因是他缺少了欧洲和英国上流社会生活给他带来的奢侈品和娱乐。他也第一次脱离了保护他的人的警戒。他比以往任何时候都更自由，而且处于一种有利于精神集中的气氛中。他似乎充分利用了这一点，定期进行冥想，可以预见的是，他会把提高智力的意图放在一边。

    Rosalind had relieved Krishna from the pressure of caring for Nitya,  freeing him from that responsibility which he had felt as a burden.  Nitya was far too sensitive to Krishna's needs to ever knowingly  pre-empt his older brother's place in any relationship. His love for  Rosalind could only have flowered under the belief that Krishna did  not share a similar feeling for her. Nevertheless, considerate though  they may be, two people in love tend to isolate a third person from  their charmed circle. Krishna would always claim he was incapable of  loneliness, yet there would be times in his life when enforced isolation  produced some strange reactions. 
罗莎琳德把克里希纳从照顾尼提亚的压力中解脱出来，把他从他认为是负担的责任中解脱出来。尼提亚对克里希纳的需求太敏感了，从来没有故意在任何关系中抢占他哥哥的位置。他对罗莎琳德的爱只有在相信克里希纳对她没有同样的感觉的情况下才能开花结果。然而，尽管两个相爱的人可能很体贴，但他们往往会把第三个人从他们的小圈子里孤立出来。克里希纳总是声称他无法忍受孤独，然而在他的生命中，强制的孤立有时会产生一些奇怪的反应。

    Stemming ostensibly from his meditation sessions, Krishna suddenly  developed disturbing physical symptoms that progressed from discom- fort to pain. Along with this came a series of peculiar experiences. 
表面上是由于他的冥想课程，克里希纳突然出现了令人不安的身体症状，从不适发展到疼痛。随之而来的是一系列奇特的经历。

    Both Krishna and Nitya wrote accounts of these experiences (which  Nitya called the ?(r)process'). They lasted this first time for a period of about  three days. These accounts were typed by Erma and sent, at Krishna's  request, to Leadbeater and Miss Dodge. Additional copies were made  later by Rajagopal to be given to Mrs Besant and Lady Emily. Everyone  involved was sworn to a lifetime of secrecy by Krishna. (Lady Emily  would be embroiled in a tempest when, thirty years later, she wanted  to publish these accounts in her biography, Candles in the Sun. Twenty  years after that Krishna dropped his objections and allowed Lady Emily's  daughter Mary Lutyens to do so.) 

克里希纳和尼提亚都写下了这些经历(尼提亚称之为“过程”)。他们第一次持续了大约三天。这些情况由爱尔玛打印出来，并应克里希纳的要求寄给了利德比特和道奇小姐。后来拉贾戈帕尔又复印了几份，交给贝赞特夫人和艾米丽夫人。每一个参与其中的人都被克里希纳发誓终身保密。(三十年后，当艾米丽夫人想要在她的传记《阳光下的蜡烛》中发表这些故事时，她卷入了一场风暴。二十年后，克里希纳放弃了反对，允许艾米丽夫人的女儿玛丽・鲁琴斯这样做。)

    Rosalind was well aware that Krishna was experiencing some strange  symptoms. He complained of an acute pain in his neck and she detected  a slight swelling there, but saw nothing alarming. After a few days he  described what sounds like a classic psychic or samadhi experience. He  felt at one with a distant workman, with the very tool in his hand and  the stone he was breaking, the grass, the dust, the birds and the trees.  He then passed into a semi-conscious state. 
罗莎琳德很清楚克里希纳正在经历一些奇怪的症状。他说脖子剧痛，她发现那里有轻微的肿胀，但没有什么可怕的。几天后，他描述了一个听起来像经典的通灵或三摩地体验。他觉得自己和远处的一个工人合而为一，手里拿着工具，正在打碎的石头，还有草地、尘土、鸟儿和树木。然后他进入了半清醒状态。

    This condition gave way the next day to worse physical pain and a  mental distress that made him feel everything around him was filthy.  The small front room of the cottage was dark and stuffy on hot summer  days, the front veranda and the screened porch on the side, where  Krishna slept, kept out the sunlight. In a dark corner he cowered in  misery and allowed only Rosalind to hold his head in her lap and  comfort him. 
这种情况在第二天变成了更严重的身体疼痛和精神痛苦，使他感到周围的一切都是肮脏的。在炎热的夏天，小屋的小前厅又黑又闷，前廊和克里希纳睡觉的侧廊挡住了阳光。在一个黑暗的角落里，他痛苦地蜷缩着，只允许罗莎琳德把他的头抱在膝上安慰他。

    Nitya, who witnessed both the ecstasy and the suffering of his brother,  wrote his own account which he later sent to Leadbeater, describing the  daily events over four days. He deferred to Leadbeater for interpretation  but his description is full and sincere though somewhat intensified by  his feverish condition and poetic imagination. 
尼提亚亲眼目睹了哥哥的狂喜和痛苦，写下了他自己的记录，后来寄给了利德比特，描述了四天里每天发生的事情。他听从利德比特的解释，但他的描述是充实而真诚的，尽管他的发烧状态和诗意的想象多少加强了他的描述。

    On the first day Krishna began to feel restless and a painful lump  developed in the back of his neck. The next morning all was well  until after breakfast when Rosalind found him tossing about on his  bed in evident pain. She could not determine the cause of his suffering.  Nitya thought it was like an attack of malaria which he knew Krishna  had first contracted as a young child. But Krishna was complaining of  intense heat rather than chills. 
第一天，克里希纳开始感到不安，脖子后面出现了一个疼痛的肿块。第二天早上一切都很好，直到吃完早饭，罗莎琳德发现他在床上辗转反侧，明显很痛苦。她无法确定他痛苦的原因。尼提亚认为这就像一种疟疾，他知道克里希纳在很小的时候就染上了这种病。但克里希纳抱怨的不是寒战，而是酷热。

    Nitya was continually touched and filled with admiration as he  witnessed Rosalind's skill and tenderness while nursing Krishna. The  nineteen-year-old girl had no experience of nursing and no interest in  Theosophy, yet her care, bestowed with what Nitya perceived to be  a remarkable combination of unselfish and yet impersonal love, was  to make both young men wonder if she were the incarnation of their  long-dead mother. 
当尼提亚目睹罗莎琳德在护理克里希纳时的技巧和温柔时，他不断地被感动和钦佩。这个19岁的女孩没有护理经验，对神智学也不感兴趣，然而她的照顾，被尼提亚认为是无私和客观的爱的非凡结合，使两个年轻人怀疑她是否是他们去世已久的母亲的化身。

    On the third day, when Rosalind had been almost continuously at  Krishna's side, Nitya felt the whole house filled by a great force and  Krishna as if possessed complained of filth in the housc and in his  bed, though everything was spotlessly clean. He allowed no one near  him, crying aloud that he wanted to go into the woods in India, and he  huddled in a dark corner. Nitya, Rosalind and Mr Warrington waited  on the veranda, watching the sky darken after sunset. They could still  see the shape of a young pepper tree a few yards away, which all day  harboured bees and small birds, drawn by its fragrance. Mr Warrington  then persuaded Krishna to leave the cottage ⌒ still stuffy with the  afternoon's heat ⌒ and enjoy the evening coolness under the tree. 
第三天，当罗莎琳德几乎一直在克里希纳身边时，尼提亚感到整个房子充满了一股巨大的力量，克里希纳仿佛被附身了，抱怨房子和床上的污秽，尽管一切都一尘不染。他不让任何人靠近他，大声喊着要到印度的树林里去，蜷缩在一个黑暗的角落里。尼提亚、罗莎琳德和沃灵顿先生等在阳台上，看着日落后天色渐渐暗下来。他们还能看见几码外一棵小胡椒树的形状，它的香味吸引着蜜蜂和小鸟，整天在那里栖息。沃灵顿先生说服克里希纳离开仍然被下午的热气闷得透不过气的小屋，到树下享受傍晚的凉爽。

    Krishna had eaten nearly nothing for three days, yet now seated  under the tree he began to chant mantrams. Nitya was reminded of  a moment long ago in Taormina when Krishna had gazed upon a  painting of Gautama Buddha in beggar's robes and they had both felt  they had received a divine thought. Afterwards Nitya told Rosalind that he had again felt this presence and had seen a great star above the  tree. He was convinced he saw this glorious moment reflected on her  face ⌒ and he told her that she had exclaimed repeatedly, ?(r)Do you see  him?' Nitya had assumed without question that she was referring to the  Divine Bodhisattva. Although neither he nor Mr Warrington were able  to share her vision, they heard the music of the divine Gandharvas. 
克里希纳已经三天几乎没吃东西了，但现在他坐在树下开始吟唱咒语。尼提亚想起很久以前在陶尔米纳的一个时刻，当时克里希纳凝视着一幅乔达摩佛穿着乞丐长袍的画，他们俩都觉得自己得到了一个神圣的思想。后来尼提亚对罗莎琳德说，他又感到了幽灵的存在，还看到树的上方有一颗巨大的星星。他确信他在她脸上看到了这辉煌的一刻，他告诉她，她曾多次惊呼:“你看到他了吗?”尼提亚毫无疑问地以为她指的是神菩萨。虽然他和沃灵顿先生都不能分享她的愿景，但他们听到了神圣的犍陀罗的音乐。

    All this lasted nearly thirty minutes and then, as Krishna rose and  approached them, Rosalind fainted. When she recovered, much to  Nitya's distress, she remembered nothing except hearing music. 
这一切持续了将近三十分钟，然后，当克里希纳站起来走近他们时，罗莎琳德晕倒了。当她恢复过来的时候，尼提亚非常难过，除了听到音乐，她什么都不记得了。

    Rosalind, who, according to Nitya, was the only actual witness of  the occult phenomena, does not accept what he assumed she had seen.  Night after night Nitya, Rosalind and Mr Warrington gathered on the  veranda of the cottage for meditation. Rosalind usually fell asleep and  on this occasion awoke to be told she had witnessed the coming of  the presence. To this day she often awakens hearing music, as she has  done all her life. She had from birth gone to sleep to the sound of  chamber music performed by her mother and aunts. Not sharing the  preconceptions of the others, she allowed them their interpretations  without accepting them as her own. She believes that whatever Nitya  read on her face stemmed from her own dreams. She remembered  nothing and did not feel anything remarkable had happened. 
根据尼提亚的说法，罗莎琳德是神秘现象的唯一实际目击者，她不接受他所认为的她所看到的。尼提亚、罗莎琳德和沃灵顿先生每晚都聚集在小屋的阳台上冥想。罗莎琳德通常都是睡着的，而这一次醒来时，有人告诉她，她目睹了幽灵的到来。直到今天，她还经常在音乐中醒来，就像她一生中所做的那样。从出生起，她就在母亲和阿姨们演奏的室内乐中入睡。她不认同别人的先入之见，她允许别人的解释，而不把它们当作自己的解释。她相信尼提亚在她脸上看到的一切都源于她自己的梦。她什么也不记得了，也不觉得发生了什么不寻常的事。

    She was in an exhausted state. All her days were spent taking care of  Nitya and then, as his symptoms began to occur, of Krishna. Rosalind  never found these symptoms as strange or alarming as did either Nitya  or Krishna. Krishna, moaning about a swelling in his neck, back pains  and an upset stomach, would put his head in her lap for comfort. He  sometimes also fondled her breast. She attributed this behaviour to his  strong need to be mothered. But it hardly helped confirm, for her, the  spiritual implications of this event, so exciting to the others. 
她精疲力竭。她整天都在照顾尼提亚，然后，当他的症状开始出现时，照顾克里希纳。罗莎琳德从未像尼提亚或克里希纳那样觉得这些症状奇怪或令人担忧。克里希纳一边抱怨脖子肿、背疼、胃不舒服，一边把头靠在她的腿上寻求安慰。他有时也抚摸她的乳房。她把这种行为归因于他对母爱的强烈需求。但对她来说，这几乎无助于证实这件事的精神意义，这件事让其他人如此兴奋。

    For the past ten years there had been considerable activity throughout  much of the Theosophical world in anticipation of the coming of the  world teacher, as forecast by Leadbeater. Money had been raised,  publications started, land donated, and thousands of individuals were  working hard to advance their own spiritual preparedness. Krishna's  ?(r)process', as Nitya first called it, took place against a backdrop of  intense anticipation and excitement. 
在过去的十年里，神智学界的许多地方都有相当大的活动，正如利德比特所预言的那样，期待着世界老师的到来。资金已经筹集，出版物开始出版，土地捐赠，成千上万的人正在努力提高自己的精神准备。正如尼提亚最初所说的那样，克里希纳的“过程”是在强烈期待和兴奋的背景下发生的。

    Given the mental condition of everyone except Rosalind at that moment, it is no wonder that they concluded the supposed phenomenon was happening. Nitya, due to his feverish condition, on top of being in love, may have greatly exaggerated the look on Rosalind's face. Nor was he of a sceptical nature. He did not live long enough for us to know whether he would have followed his brother in an eventual rejection of  Theosophy. As we shall see from what transpired between them before  his death, it seems unlikely. 

考虑到当时除了罗莎琳德之外的每个人的精神状况，难怪他们得出结论，认为所谓的现象正在发生。尼提亚，由于他的发烧状况，加上他正在恋爱，可能大大夸大了罗莎琳德脸上的表情。他也不是一个生性怀疑的人。他活得不够长，我们无法知道他是否会像他哥哥一样最终拒绝神智学。我们将从他死前他们之间发生的事情中看到，这似乎不太可能。

    If one is not given to a belief in the occult, Krishna's physical  symptoms might be explained by a variety of ailments, such as recurring  attacks of malaria, which he had first suffered at the age of two and  which were known to have afflicted him in later life. 

如果一个人不相信神秘学，克里希纳的身体症状可以用各种各样的疾病来解释，比如反复发作的疟疾，他在两岁时第一次患病，人们知道他后来的生活一直受到这种疾病的折磨。

    When I was a young girl, 1 told Krinsh one day about an epileptic  boy in my school. I described the terrifying seizures and how we were  all trained to help the boy by putting a handkerchief in his mouth so  he wouldn't bite off his tongue. And then I added that Warren had  admitted to me that several times he had faked these attacks to avoid a  difficult situation, and had fooled even the teachers. Krinsh replied that  he knew all about that affliction, for his own mother had suffered from  it. I was duly impressed and repeated that comment to my father, who  said very seriously that I must never repeat it again or discuss it with  anyone. Krinsh never again referred to it. I have found no reference to  this possibility in any of the literature about him, but his words remain a  clear and definite memory. Epilepsy 1s a complex disorder and manifests  itself in a wide range of symptoms, such as seeing visions and other  symptoms at that time not readily diagnosed. 

当我还是个小女孩的时候，有一天我告诉克里希纳，我们学校里有一个患癫痫的男孩。我描述了可怕的癫痫发作，以及我们是如何训练来帮助这个男孩的，把一块手帕塞进他的嘴里，这样他就不会咬掉自己的舌头。然后我又补充说，沃伦向我承认，有几次他为了避免困境而假装攻击，甚至骗过了老师。克里希纳回答说，他知道所有的痛苦，因为他自己的母亲也遭受过这种痛苦。我对此印象深刻，并把这句话重复给了父亲，他非常严肃地说，我不能再重复，也不能和任何人讨论。克里希纳再也没有提起这件事。我在任何关于他的文献中都没有发现这种可能性，但他的话仍然清晰而明确地留在我的记忆中。癫痫是一种复杂的疾病，表现为各种各样的症状，如看到幻象和其他当时不易诊断的症状。

    The most plausible explanation could lie in a complex of factors  that include the dissociation of personality, the often accompanying  hallucinatory symptoms, and the subsequent emergence of one or more  partial but distinct personalities.? No one thought to call in a doctor  of any kind when Krishna's first symptoms emerged. Even before the  popularity of psychosomatic medicine, a competent physician might  have suggested that Krishna's symptoms were quite simply the result  ofa conscious or unconscious intense need to receive the mothering and  love that Rosalind had been bestowing on Nitya. In the future these  symptoms would be witnessed usually by a woman for whom Krishna  felt a special involvement or love. What is important is where these  manifestations led and why and how the acceptance of the occult  interpretation shaped his future. 
最合理的解释可能是一个复杂的因素，包括人格分离，经常伴随的幻觉症状，以及随后出现的一个或多个部分但独特的人格。当克里希纳的最初症状出现时，没有人想到去找任何医生。甚至在身心医学普及之前，一位有能力的医生可能会建议，克里希纳的症状很简单，是有意识或无意识地强烈需要接受罗莎琳德给予尼提亚的母爱和爱的结果。在未来，这些症状通常会被克里希纳感受到一种特殊的介入或爱的女人所见证。重要的是这些表现导致了什么，为什么以及如何接受神秘的解释塑造了他的未来。

    It is not easy to define a mystical experience, although to the authentic  experiencer the veracity of it seems unquestionable. The state of feeling  a departure from the body or a drifting away and looking down upon it  is not uncommon. It happens to people who have suffered prolonged  bouts of dysentery, sunstroke or other physical ailments. Classically, in  Buddhism as with some of the Christian mystics, a samadhi or mystical  experience seems to be, simply put, a dropping away of the ego and a sense of oneness with the universe, or as Blake expressed it with such  precise beauty: 
To see a world in a grain of sand  And a heaven in a wild flower  Hold infinity in the palm of your hand  And eternity in an hour. 

要给神秘的体验下定义并不容易，尽管对于真正的体验者来说，它的真实性似乎是毋庸置疑的。感觉离开身体或飘忽而去并俯视它的状态并不罕见。这种情况发生在长期患有痢疾、中暑或其他身体疾病的人身上。经典地说，在佛教和一些基督教神秘主义者中，三昧或神秘的体验，简单地说，似乎是一种自我的消失和与宇宙的一体感，或者像布莱克用这样精确的美来表达:  从一粒沙子看到一个世界，从一朵野花看到一个天堂，把无限放在你的手心里，永恒也就消融于一刹那。

    This usually temporary state of egolessness should have an effect on  the personality which is lasting even though the ego condition returns.  The very essence is the dropping away of the ego; there can be no  advantage made of it or use for future benefit or sense of authority and  knowledge on the part of the experiencer. In other words there can be  no profit motive. The mystic Meister Eckhart said: ?(r)Some people want  to see God with their eyes as they see a cow and to love him as they  love their cow ⌒ they love the cow for the milk and cheese and profit  it makes them.' 

这种通常是暂时的无我状态会对人格产生影响，即使自我状态又回来了，这种影响也是持久的。本质是自我的消失；对于体验者来说，它没有任何好处，也不能用于未来的利益或权威感和知识感。换句话说，不能有获利的动机。神秘主义者埃克哈特(Meister Eckhart)说：”有些人希望用他们的眼睛看到上帝，就像看到一头奶牛一样，并且像爱他们的奶牛一样爱上帝。他们爱奶牛是因为牛奶、奶酪和它们给他们带来的利润。”

    Surely if the illumination derived from samadhi is used to promote  ego-born wishes, or beliefs, or to elevate the position of the individual  in any way, grave suspicion may be cast on the integrity of the whole  experience. 
当然，如果来自三摩地的启示被用来促进自我产生的愿望或信仰，或以任何方式提升个人的地位，那么整个经验的完整性可能会受到严重的怀疑。

    Krishna's experience on the first day, his feeling at one with his  surroundings, rings true in that it puts no undue demands on credibility.  It is not occult. It requires no interpretation, nor does it seem to place  the subject in a position of hierarchical advancement. It could, in other  words, happen to any of us and we might hope that if it did, as the  result of this instant of egolessness, we would henceforth see the world  in a new dimension. It can bestow no authority to lead, only to share  and by sharing to offer others the hope of the sense of reality imparted.  Some day Krishna himself would proclaim that truth is a pathless land.  But he had not arrived at that point yet. While he demanded a shroud of  secrecy from the public at large, he allowed copies of the account to be  sent to his protectors and he did not protest when his experience under  the pepper tree was taken by them as a sign of his rapid advancement  along ?(r)the Path'. 
克里希纳第一天的经历，他与周围环境合而为一的感觉，听起来是真实的，因为它没有对可信度提出不必要的要求。它并不神秘。它不需要解释，它似乎也不把主体放在一个等级进步的位置。换句话说，它可能发生在我们任何人身上，我们可能希望，如果它真的发生了，作为这一瞬间无我的结果，我们从此将以一个新的维度看待世界。它不能赋予领导的权威，只能分享，并通过分享给他人带来的现实感的希望。总有一天克里希纳自己会宣称真理是无路之地。但他还没有走到那一步。虽然他要求对公众保密，但他允许将记录的副本寄给他的保护者，当他在胡椒树下的经历被他们认为是他在“道路”上迅速进步的标志时，他也没有抗议。
