8 Trouble on the Path 路上的麻烦

    The 'process' continued through the summer and autumn at Ojai but  without the ecstatic aspects. Krishna appeared to suffer only the physical  discomforts. In certain circumstances these would continue to manifest  themselves throughout the years to come. The ?(r)process' only occurred in  Rosalind's presence ~ at least up until then. Krishna professed to believe  that Rosalind was his long-lost mother. He and Nitya even wrote to  ask Leadbeater if it were possible that she could be the reincarnation  of their mother. The inconvenient fact that Rosalind was nineteen and  their mother had died only seventeen years before was not lost either on  them or Leadbeater, but they hoped that the Masters could account for  such untimely paradoxes. The whole experience of Krishna's, 'process'  had urged both the brothers into a renewed enthusiasm for the work  and service to the Masters, which included Krishna's declaration to  Leadbeater of his love and respect and some apology for his past  obstreperous behaviour. 

在奥海，“过程”持续了整个夏天和秋天，但没有狂喜的一面。似乎只是身体上的不适。在某些情况下，这些将在今后的岁月中继续表现出来。这个过程只发生在罗莎琳德在场的情况下――至少在那之前是这样。克里希纳自称相信罗莎琳德是他失散已久的母亲。他和尼提亚甚至写信问利德比特，她是否有可能是他们母亲的转世。罗莎琳德已经十九岁了，而他们的母亲在十七年前才去世，这对他们和利德比特来说都是一个不方便的事实，但他们希望大师们能够解释这种不合时宜的矛盾。克里希纳的整个经历促使两兄弟重新热情地为大师工作和服务，其中包括克里希纳向利德比特表示他的爱和尊重，并为他过去的粗暴行为道歉。

    This would be in accordance with Mrs Besant's description of the way  of ?(r)the Path', although, according to that code, Krishna's behaviour had  been far too recalcitrant for one who had passed the second initiation.  Nevertheless Leadbeater appeared not to have doubted that Krishna's  experience under the pepper tree signified that he had passed the third  initiation. The physical symptoms, however, puzzled him. He believed  that both he and Mrs Besant had travelled the same stages on ?(r)the Path'  but without pain. Leadbeater pondered this question for a month while  Krishna awaited his response without total patience. He would never  receive a fully satisfying answer. Leadbeater appeared to find it difficult  to fit Krishna's symptoms into his scheme. In Leadbeater's eyes Krishna  was still a pupil and had a long path ahead, filled with pitfalls, to travel.  His ultimate destiny was not, by any means, assured. On the other  hand, many of the Theosophists surrounding Krishna were willing  to see him as an already perfect being. This made them and their  lives much more immediately meaningful and important. Leadbeater's  insistence on an arduous step-by-step path to divinity might have made Krishna impatient, to say the least. Yet in Krishna's public talks with  young Theosophists, with whom he was very busy during this year in  America, he attributed to Leadbeater's training of him his present state  of spiritual development. He was, at the same time, fully conscious  of the permeating religious culture into which he had been born and  of the role his mother had played, during those early pre-discovery  years, in training his young mind to focus on religious figures, Lord  Krishna, Maitreya Buddha, whose pictures were in the family shrine  room. He had been told to meditate three times a day, even briefly,  on great things. 

这与贝赞特夫人对“正道”的描述是一致的，尽管根据那个准则，克里希纳的行为对于一个通过了第二次启蒙的人来说太过顽固了。然而，利德比特似乎并不怀疑克里希纳在胡椒树下的经历表明他已经通过了第三次启蒙。然而，身体上的症状使他感到困惑。他相信他和贝赞特夫人在人生道路上走过了相同的阶段，但没有痛苦。利德比特对这个问题思考了一个月，而克里希纳则毫无耐心地等待他的回答。他永远不会得到一个完全满意的答复。利德比特似乎发现很难将克里希纳的症状纳入他的计划。在利德比特的眼中，克里希纳仍然是一个学生，前面的路很长，充满了陷阱。无论如何，他的最终命运还没有确定。另一方面，许多围绕克里希纳的神智学家愿意将他视为一个已经完美的存在。这让他们和他们的生活立刻变得更有意义和重要。退一步说，利德比特坚持走一条艰难的通往神性的道路，可能会让克里希纳失去耐心。然而，这一年克里希纳在美国与年轻的神智学者们进行公开谈话时，他把他目前的精神发展状态归功于利德比特的训练。与此同时，他完全意识到他出生时所处的宗教文化的渗透，以及他母亲在早期发现前的岁月里所扮演的角色，在训练他年轻的心灵专注于宗教人物，克里希纳神，弥勒佛，他的照片就放在家里的神龛里。他被告知每天要冥想三次，哪怕是短暂的冥想，都是为了伟大的事情。

    But it was Leadbeater who gave him the cohesive and rigorous  training both in habits of thought and of physical care ⌒ personal  cleanliness being of foremost importance. He repeated to the American  youths Leadbeater's view that there was no virtue in being a filthy holy  man or saint, either Christian or Hindu, though he added rather melo- dramatically that Leadbeater's nagging about cleanliness had made him  temporarily miserable. In 1923 he was still willing to grant Leadbeater  a vital role in his training on these levels and he advocated for others  the programme Leadbeater had laid out for him: to read a great many  novels in order to gain varied points of view and ideas; to learn about  ways of life different from one's own, even to read trash; above all,  read religious books. 
但是，是利德比特在思想习惯和身体护理方面给了他连贯而严格的训练――个人清洁是最重要的。他向美国青年重复了利德比特的观点，即无论是基督教徒还是印度教徒，做一个肮脏的圣人或圣徒是没有什么美德的，尽管他颇为委婉地戏剧性地补充说，利德比特对清洁的唠叨使他暂时感到痛苦。1923年，他仍然愿意让利德比特在他的这些层次的训练中发挥至关重要的作用，他还提倡其他人按照利德比特为他制定的计划:阅读大量的小说，以获得不同的观点和思想;去了解不同于自己的生活方式，甚至去读垃圾读物;最重要的是，阅读宗教书籍。

    The fickleness of Krishna's affections for Leadbeater would continue  for some years, resolving, on certain occasions, into a display of  abhorrence at the very mention of Leadbeater's name. This attitude  on Krishna's part would one day be the cause of a serious quarrel  between him and Nitya, for Nitya remained true to his protectors and  to Theosophy. 
克里希纳对利德比特的感情反复无常，持续了好几年，在某些场合，一提到利德比特的名字就表现出厌恶。克里希纳的这种态度有一天会导致他和尼提亚之间发生严重的争吵，因为尼提亚仍然忠于他的保护者和神智学。

    When the autumn rains came to Ojai in early November, after the  usual six months' dry period, Krishna was enchanted by the miracle of  green sprouting through the parched dry brown of the terrain. He saw  it was a green unlike that of the spring in a cold climate which comes  with a gentle mellowing of the weather. In California the grass appears  almost overnight, laid like a carpet over the contours of the hills. Tender  shoots of poison oak emerge on the dry stalks. The dark green leaves of  the live oaks, washed clean from the summer dust, shine. The streams  run with crystal water over the white granite rocks. Krishna would  carry this image of California with him ever after. 
在通常六个月的干旱期之后，11月初，秋天的雨水来到了奥海，克里希纳被从干燥的棕色地形中冒出的绿色奇迹迷住了。他看到那是一种绿色，不像气候寒冷、天气温和的春天的绿色。在加州，草地几乎一夜之间就长出来了，像地毯一样覆盖在山峦的轮廓上。毒橡树的嫩芽长在干茎上。活橡树的深绿色叶子，洗净了夏日的尘土，闪闪发光。清澈的溪水流过白色的花岗岩。克里希纳将永远带着这幅加州的画面。

    The brothers' love for the Ojai Valley increased, as did their longing  to have their own home. With donations raised by Mrs Besant, mostly  from Miss Dodge, the six-acre property adjacent to Mary Gray's estate was purchased for them. This land included the cottage where they  had been staying and the large, L-shaped main house with patio and  front veranda. This they named Arya Vihara (house of the Aryan or  nobleman) even though it was merely a ramshackle California redwood  ranch house, poorly furnished and in need of paint. Later Miss Dodge  bought for them another seven acres so that the privacy of their property  was safeguarded. Krishna was already astute enough to refuse to own  property personally, perhaps realizing that a young man with his spiritual  future must appear to be materially unencumbered. A trust called the  Brothers Association had been formed to hold the estate. Of course  this was in any case a necessity, for under the California land laws of  that time Orientals, as Indians were incorrectly categorized, could not  own land. Whatever the technicalities involved, Arya Vihara was to be  Krishna's beloved home for many years. Yet there would always be  an ambivalence in him which made him long for India when he was  in California and for California when he was in India. 
兄弟俩对奥海河谷的爱与日俱增，他们渴望拥有自己的家。在贝赞特夫人的捐款(大部分来自道奇小姐)下，他们买下了玛丽・格雷庄园附近那块六英亩的土地。这块土地包括他们曾经住过的小屋，还有带露台和前廊的L形大房子。他们把这所房子命名为Arya Vihara(圣者居所)，尽管它只是一栋摇摇欲坠的加州红木牧场房子，家具简陋，需要油漆。后来，道奇小姐又为他们买了七英亩地，这样他们的财产隐私就得到了保障。克里希纳已经足够精明，拒绝个人拥有财产，也许他意识到，一个拥有精神未来的年轻人必须在物质上毫无羁绊。成立了一个名为“兄弟协会”的信托基金来保管遗产。当然，这在任何情况下都是必要的，因为根据当时加利福尼亚的土地法，东方人，因为印第安人被错误地分类，不能拥有土地。无论涉及到什么技术细节，Arya Vihara(圣者居所)将是克里希纳多年心爱的家。然而，他总是有一种矛盾的心理，使他在加利福尼亚时渴望印度，而在印度时又渴望加利福尼亚。

    By June 1923, Nitya's health was vastly improved and the brothers  finally returned to Europe. Rosalind did not go with them. For her and  for Nitya the parting was sad and difficult. The love between them had  become very strong. But they had both realized that in Krishna's circle  ?(r)the Work' was all important and the pursuit of personal happiness must  take second place. 
到1923年6月，尼提亚的健康状况大大改善，兄弟俩终于回到了欧洲。罗莎琳德没有和他们一起去。对她和尼提亚来说，离别既悲伤又艰难。他们之间的爱变得非常强烈。但他们都认识到，在克里希纳的圈子里，“工作”是最重要的，追求个人幸福必须退居其次。

    Meanwhile Raja had been spared the endless distractions and excitement  generated around Mrs Besant and the brothers. While they were in India  and California, he had been able to concentrate totally on his studies  and had just passed the first set of examinations for the Tripos. Life  at Cambridge suited him to the centre of his being. He was a natural  scholar, his life was comfortable, and he quickly won the respect of his  tutor. * 
与此同时，拉贾也不受贝赞特夫人和兄弟们无休止的干扰和兴奋的影响。当他们在印度和加利福尼亚的时候，他已经能够完全专注于他的学习，并且刚刚通过了博士学位的第一批考试。剑桥的生活完全适合他。他是一个天生的学者，他的生活舒适，他很快赢得了他的导师的尊重。

    In deference to Nitya's health, it was arranged that August would be  spent in Ehrwald in the Austrian Tyrol, where a chalet had been lent  to Krishna. Raja was invited to join the large party, which included  Lady Emily with her daughters, Betty and Mary, Helen Knothe, Ruth  Roberts and Marcelle de Manziarly. 
考虑到尼提亚的健康状况，他们安排八月在奥地利蒂罗尔的埃尔瓦尔德度过，克里希纳在那里租了一间小木屋。拉贾被邀请参加这个盛大的聚会，其中包括艾米丽夫人和她的女儿，贝蒂和玛丽，海伦・克诺斯，露丝・罗伯茨和马塞勒・德・曼齐亚利。

    During this seven-week holiday Raja was for the first time on hand,  (though not actually present) during Krishna's ?(r)process'. When the  ?(r)process' started again in Ehrwald there was no pepper tree; no music,  or great star, or shiming beings and, of course, no Rosalind. In any  case Krishna would not have wanted her; for now very definitely he  wanted Helen. 
在这七周的假期里，拉贾第一次在克里希纳的"过程"中(虽然实际上并不在场)。当在埃尔瓦尔德重新开始"过程"时，没有胡椒树;没有音乐，没有巨星，没有闪耀的生灵，当然也没有罗莎琳德。无论如何，克里希纳都不会想要她；现在他非常明确地想要海伦。

To those on the sidelines with their imaginations and expectations  ripe for a miraculous happening, the atmosphere seemed charged with  powerful presences. Most of them felt encompassed by extraordinary  vibrations. But the whole business of Krishna's ?(r)process', in spite of  the assumed implications, must have been worrying if not terrifying  to Nitya. While similar experiences had been claimed by Blavatsky and  other Theosophists, as well as occultists at large, according to Leadbeater  they had not recorded having Krishna's physical misery. Yet Nitya and  Krishna were not receiving any clear diagnoses either medical (for they  would not consult regular doctors) or occult (from their usual source,  Leadbeater). In accordance with Krishna's wishes, it was still a matter  of extreme privacy and very few people were supposed to know of it.  Although not untypically in such situations, the very cloak of secrecy  warmed and spread the secret. 
对于那些旁观者来说，他们的想象力和对奇迹发生的期待已经成熟，气氛似乎充满了强大的存在。他们中的大多数人都感到被一种特殊的振动包围着。但是，克里希纳的整个过程，尽管有假定的含义，对尼提亚来说，即使不是可怕的，也一定是令人担忧的。虽然布拉瓦茨基和其他神智学家以及一般的神秘主义者都声称有类似的经历，但根据利德比特的说法，他们没有记录过克里希纳的身体痛苦。然而尼提亚和克里希纳没有得到任何明确的诊断，无论是医学上的(因为他们不会咨询正规的医生)还是神秘的(从他们通常的来源，利德比特)。按照克里希纳的意愿，这仍然是一个极端隐私的问题，应该很少有人知道。虽然在这种情况下并非不寻常，但秘密的斗篷却温暖了并传播了秘密。

    In September the party removed to Eerde Castle in Holland. A trust  was being set up to hold the castle for, as with Arya Vihara, Krishna  maintained that he did not want personally to own property. 
9月，他们搬到了荷兰的埃尔德(Eerde)城堡。一个信托基金被设立来保管城堡，因为和Arya Vihara(圣者居所)一样，克里希纳坚持说他不想个人拥有财产。

    When I last saw Eerde Castle it had survived the Second World  War and was a private boarding school. The moat was dry and the  romantic atmosphere of a magnificent early eighteenth-century castle  was diminished. As a child, I remembered the large fish swimming in  the moat, fed by a natural stream, and the row of great trees lining the  long entrance drive. The property encompassed five thousand acres of  pine forest with small ponds and farms. It was an unbelievable gift to  anyone ⌒ even a world teacher. 
当我最后一次见到埃尔德城堡时，它在第二次世界大战中幸存下来，是一所私立寄宿学校。护城河干涸了，十八世纪早期宏伟城堡的浪漫气氛也消失了。当我还是个孩子的时候，我记得在护城河里游泳的大鱼，它们是由一条天然的溪流喂养的，还有在长长的入口车道两旁排列着一排参天大树。这处房产包括五千英亩的松林，还有小池塘和农场。这对任何人来说都是一份难以置信的礼物，即使是世界老师。

    The impetuous love that Krishna had proclaimed for Helen the  previous year had mellowed considerably, in spite of her help with  his ?(r)process', although he still continued for a few years to write love  letters to her. 
尽管在海伦的帮助下，克里希纳在前一年对海伦宣布的那种冲动的爱已经相当成熟了，尽管他在接下来的几年里仍然继续给她写情书。

    Nitya had now become close friends with Raja. That summer he  had asked Raja to take a year's leave of absence from Cambridge and  return with them both to Ojai for the following winter, as he felt his  presence might be a help if the ?(r)process' were to continue at Ojai. This  Raja agreed to do. He had heard at length about Rosalind from Nitya,  whose love for her touched Raja. (Much later he would tell Rosalind  that he thought he had fallen in love with her listening to Nitya talk  about her on the train across America.) 
尼提亚现在和拉贾成了亲密的朋友。那年夏天，他让拉贾从剑桥请假一年，然后和他们俩一起回到奥海度过下一个冬天，因为他觉得如果奥海的“过程”继续下去，他的存在可能会有所帮助。拉贾同意这么做。他终于从尼提亚那里听到了罗莎琳德的事，尼提亚对罗莎琳德的爱感动了拉贾。(很久以后，他告诉罗莎琳德，他觉得自己是在穿越美国的火车上听尼提亚谈论她时爱上她的。)

    Serious as the framework of their lives might have been, they were  still young and certainly capable of enjoying the possibilities of romance  and falling in love. There was never any question of a triangle. They  were all very close and Raja would keep to himself whatever serious feelings he had for Rosalind. He would never have interposed himself  between her and Nitya. Fortunately neither Nitya nor Raja had jealous  or possessive natures. 

尽管他们的生活框架可能是严肃的，但他们仍然年轻，当然有能力享受浪漫和坠入爱河的可能性。根本就不存在三角恋的问题。他们都很亲密，拉贾对罗莎琳德的任何感情都不会说出去。他决不会介入她和尼提亚之间。幸运的是，尼提亚和拉贾都没有嫉妒或占有欲。

    Now Rosalind had three young Indians to care for. She found in Raja,  as had Nitya, a steadfast friend. He taught her to play chess and the love  for this game would be a long bond between them. While Raja would  never be much of an athlete, he became quite good at badminton, a  game at which Krishna excelled. 
现在罗莎琳德要照顾三个年轻的印度人。和尼提亚一样，她在拉贾身上找到了一个坚定的朋友。他教她下国际象棋，对这项运动的热爱将成为他们之间长久的纽带。虽然拉贾永远不会成为一名优秀的运动员，但他很擅长羽毛球，而克里希纳擅长这项运动。

    Rosalind stayed with Erma in what was now called Pine Cottage,  which her mother had once occupied, while the young men moved into  Arya Vihara. This they all set about to paint in the Victorian d¨|cor of  cream yellow with dark green trim. Supposedly they were all sharing in  the cooking and housework too, but it does not take much imagination  to picture who really did the work, putting up with token help from  three young men who had never attempted such chores. 
罗莎琳德和爱玛住在她母亲曾经住过的松树小屋里，而年轻人则搬到了Arya Vihara(圣者居所)。他们都着手在维多利亚时代的画室里用米黄色和深绿色镶边来画这幅画。按理说，他们也都分担了做饭和家务，但不难想象，到底是谁做了这些工作，忍受了三个从未尝试过这些家务的年轻人象征性的帮助。

    Work was relieved by walks together in the hills and trips with the ever  generous and loving Ingelmans to the Grand Canyon and to Yosemite. It  should have been a very happy existence for all four young people in that  idyllic valley. Rosalind was preparing for Radcliffe which she intended  to enter in the autumn and was being tutored in French by Mary Gray,  in algebra by Raja and in poetry by Nitya. These latter sessions were  her greatest delight and Nitya's exceptionally beautiful voice as he read  poetry would linger in her memory for the rest of her life. 
在山间散步，和一向慷慨慈爱的英格尔曼夫妇一起去大峡谷和约塞米蒂国家公园旅行，减轻了工作负担。在那田园诗般的山谷里，四个年轻人应该过着非常幸福的生活。罗莎琳德正在为秋天入学的拉德克利夫大学做准备，法语由玛丽・格雷辅导，代数由拉贾辅导，诗歌由尼提亚辅导。后来的几次会面是她最大的乐趣，尼提亚读诗时异常优美的声音将在她的余生中萦绕在她的记忆中。

    One day, feeling his health strengthening, Nitya expressed his hopes  to Krishna that he might marry Rosalind. But as with all his previous  personal yearnings, these hopes were abruptly dashed. He came to  Rosalind with a sadness she had never seen in him before and said  that Krishna had been outraged by the idea and had insisted that his  younger brother must dedicate himself solely to ?(r)the Work'. Much as  she loved Nitya, marriage was still far from Rosalind's mind. Neither  would it ever be a tendency in her to worry about the future. 
有一天，尼提亚觉得自己的健康状况有所好转，他向克里希纳表达了希望他能娶罗莎琳德的愿望。但是，就像他以前所有的个人愿望一样，这些希望突然破灭了。他带着一种罗莎琳德从未见过的悲伤来到罗莎琳德面前，说克里希纳被这个想法激怒了，坚持认为他的弟弟必须全身心地奉献给“工作”。虽然她很爱尼提亚，但罗莎琳德还远没有想到结婚。她也从来没有为未来担心的倾向。

    There was another aspect not so idyllic to that summer, which  caused pain not only for himself but for those around him. Krishna  again started his ?(r)process', which continued unabated for weecks and  weeks. This time he refused to have Rosalind near him and occa- sionally called instead for the absent Helen, but mostly he wanted  no one. 
那个夏天还有另一个不那么美好的方面，这不仅给他自己，也给他周围的人带来了痛苦。克里希纳又开始了他的“过程”，持续了数周又数周。这一次，他拒绝让罗莎琳德靠近他，偶尔呼唤缺席的海伦，但大多数时候他谁也不想要。

    Having read the accounts of the ?(r)process' the year before and of the  role Rosalind had played, Raja was struck by the bewilderment he saw  in Rosalind at Krishna's sudden rejection of her. Privately his heart  went out to her. Who would have guessed that the hurt in Krishna's heart was behind this rejection? His feelings for Rosalind would remain  undeclared as long as Nitya lived (as would Raja's), but he might well  have foreseen in Raja yet another rival for her love and this in a man  he had already seen as a rival on another front. Yet Raja was gentle  and affectionate with a fun-loving side to his shy and often serious  nature. It was hard to dislike him. Krishna even admired many of his  qualities. 
在阅读了前一年的“过程”和罗莎琳德所扮演的角色的描述后，拉贾被他在罗莎琳德身上看到的克里希纳突然拒绝她的困惑所震惊。他私下里对她很感兴趣。谁能想到，在这种拒绝的背后，是克里希纳心中的伤痛？只要尼提亚活着，他对罗莎琳德的感情就不会表露出来(拉贾也一样)，但他很可能已经预见到拉贾会成为她的另一个爱情对手，而这个对手在他看来已经是另一个战线上的对手了。然而，拉贾是温柔和深情的，害羞和经常严肃的天性带着风趣的一面。不喜欢他是很难的。克里希纳甚至钦佩他的许多品质。

    Krishna and Nitya were aware that Raja was also a proteg¨| of Miss  Dodge. Krishna was curious as to whether Raja was receiving an income  comparable to theirs and often questioned Raja about this. Raja, who  had been informed of their allotment, refused to discuss his finances with  Krishna. He realized that the fact he was receiving a substantially larger  income ⌒ perhaps because of his expenses at Cambridge, but perhaps  also because of Miss Dodge's special confidence in him ⌒ would only  cause some resentment in Krishna. That he was right in this assumption  was soon indicated. 
克里希纳和尼提亚知道拉贾也是道奇小姐的门徒。克里希纳很好奇拉贾的收入是否与他们相当，并经常问拉贾这个问题。拉贾被告知他们的分配，拒绝与克里希纳讨论他的财务状况。他意识到，他的收入要高得多，可能是因为他在剑桥的开销，也可能是因为道奇小姐对他的特别信任，这只会引起克里希纳的一些怨恨。他的这个假设很快就被证明是正确的。

    One day he asked Rosalind to go to Hollywood with him to help  him buy his own car. He had saved money for this but did not  know how to drive. He and Rosalind returned to Arya Vihara in the  late afternoon, driving up in a modest enough Buick. Raja, feeling  delighted with his new possession and expecting his excitement to  be shared by his friends, was taken aback to be greeted by Krishna's  scorn and disapproval. Krishna had by then received a series of much  more elegant automobiles. In fact that year, through the generos- ity of John Ingelman, he was the proud possessor of a pale blue  Lincoln. 
一天，他叫罗莎琳德和他一起去好莱坞，帮他买一辆自己的车。他为此攒了钱，但不知道如何开车。下午晚些时候，他和罗莎琳德开着一辆普通的别克车回到了艾莉亚・维哈拉(Arya Vihara圣者居所)。拉贾为他的新财产感到高兴，并希望他的朋友们能分享他的兴奋，但克里希纳的轻蔑和不赞成却让他大吃一惊。到那时，克里希纳已经收到了一系列更加优雅的汽车。事实上，那一年，由于约翰・英格曼的慷慨，他自豪地拥有了一辆淡蓝色的林肯。

    ?(r)That car cannot remain here,?± Krishna decreed. ?(r)It is not appro- priate for us to have two cars on this place. You must take it right  back.' 
"那辆车不能留在这儿"，克里希纳下令："我们在这个地方停放两辆车是不合适的。你必须马上把它拿回去。”

    Raja, though somewhat shaken, ignored this command, the first but  far from the last such encounter he would have with Krishna. This early  though minor mutual clash of character between them could have been  taken as a significant forecast for the future. 
拉贾虽然有些动摇，但没有理会这一命令，这是他与克里希纳第一次(但绝非最后一次)这样的交锋。他们之间这种早期的轻微的性格冲突可以被看作是对未来的重要预测。

    Krishna would always assume a superior attitude toward Raja when it  came to cars and driving. He considered himself a first-rate driver and  Raja a very erratic one, although it was he and not Raja who chalked  up speeding tickets and had several near fatal accidents. Automobiles  would always play a special part in Krishna's life. He had learned well  from Miss Dodge's chauffeur how to wash and polish a car. Although  he made an effort to appear mechanical and showed a great interest in  the engine he never developed true skill as a mechanic. 
当谈到汽车和驾驶时，克里希纳总是对拉贾采取一种优越的态度。他认为自己是一个一流的司机，而拉贾则是一个非常不稳定的司机，尽管是他而不是拉贾超速驾驶，并发生了几起几乎致命的事故。汽车在克里希纳的生活中一直扮演着特殊的角色。他从道奇小姐的司机那里学会如何洗车和擦亮汽车。尽管他努力使自己显得喜欢机械，并对发动机表现出极大的兴趣，但他从未培养出真正的技工技能。

    In spring 1924, before the three young men were to return to England,  Krishna prevailed upon Rosalind to give up Radcliffe and go instead  to Australia, to stay in the Manor House and be ?(r)brought on' by  Leadbeater, who believed that her care of Nitya had entitled her to  be placed on probation. Erma, much as she would have cherished a  higher education for her younger sister, undoubtedly was too good a  Theosophist to challenge Krishna's advice. There was certainly no one  else prepared to do so. Rosalind, while not believing in the Masters,  did not strongly disbelieve either and was willing to defer to Krishna's  judgment. It was arranged that she would go down by boat with a  well-to-do Dutch Theosophist, Koos Van der Leeuw, as her guardian.  Again Sophia proved herself to be an exceptionally unpossessive and  tolerant mother. Rosalind was very dear to her and had been a great  support since leaving Buffalo. Although Sophia never came to espouse  any of the Theosophists' notions, she didn't interfere with her daughter's  future among them. 
1924年春天，在三个年轻人返回英国之前，克里希纳说服罗莎琳德放弃拉德克利夫(Radcliffe)，转而去澳大利亚，住在由利德比特带来的庄园里，利德比特认为她对尼提亚的照顾使她有资格接受试用期。爱玛虽然很想让妹妹接受高等教育，但毫无疑问，她是一位优秀的神智学者，不会挑战克里希纳的建议。当然没有其他人准备这么做。罗莎琳德虽然不相信大师，但也没有强烈地怀疑，并愿意服从克里希纳的判断。按照安排，她将由一位富有的荷兰神智学者库斯・范德尔・卢(kos Van der Leeuw)作为监护人乘船前往。索菲娅再次证明了自己是一个没有占有欲和宽容的母亲。罗莎琳德是她的至爱，自从离开布法罗以来，一直是她的得力助手。虽然索菲亚从来没有拥护过神智学者的任何观点，但她并没有干涉女儿在神智学者中的未来。

    That summer of 1924, the first Star Camp was held in Ommen on the  new land given by Baron van Pallandt. The conditions for most of the  few hundred people who attended ⌒ those not privileged to stay in the  castle ⌒ were extremely primitive. Krishna's topic included the qualities  needed for the path of discipleship ⌒ a concept he would soon reject  completely. Raja had accompanied the brothers there before returning  in the autumn to Cambridge to finish his degrees in law and history.  He could not have guessed that summer how deeply he would soon  be involved in these camps. 
1924年夏天，第一次明星露营在欧门举行，地点是范・帕兰特男爵给的新土地。参加活动的几百人中，大多数人没有特权住在城堡里，他们的生活条件极其简陋。克里希纳的主题包括门徒之路所需的品质，这是他很快就会完全拒绝的概念。在秋天回到剑桥完成他的法律和历史学位之前，拉贾一直陪着兄弟俩去那里。那年夏天，他没有想到自己会如此深入地参与到这些营地中。

    Nearly the same group as the previous year went on to a holiday at  Pergine, in the Italian Dolomites, where a square-towered castle had  been converted to a small hotel overlooking a pristine lake. Krishna and  his companions would always be blessed with the most scenic holiday  spots the world had to offer. But at this time, the ostensible purpose  of these close gatherings of friends was to learn from Krishna the way  of ?(r)the Path', to have serious meditations, and to hope that his evolved  condition would somehow pull them along. This high purpose did not  preclude those frequent moments of fun and games and sometimes  off-colour jokes, instigated by Krishna himself and often bolstered by  the mischievous streak in Raja. Unexpected outbreaks of mild ribaldry  bewildered and shocked some among Krishna's circle of devotees and  charmed others, who felt he could never be tainted by vulgarity, even  his own, and that the very perfection of his being could elevate such  behaviour to a higher plane. 
几乎和前一年一样，这群人去了意大利多洛米蒂山脉(Dolomites)的佩吉因(Pergine)度假。在那里，一座方形塔楼的城堡被改造成了一家俯瞰原始湖泊的小酒店。克里希纳和他的同伴们总是有幸去到世界上风景最优美的度假胜地。但在这个时候，这些亲密的朋友聚会表面上的目的是向克里希纳学习“正道”的方式，进行认真的冥想，并希望他进化的状况会以某种方式拉着他们一起前进。这个崇高的目标并没有排除那些频繁的乐趣和游戏，有时是低俗的笑话，由克里希纳本人煽动，并经常受到拉贾的恶作剧倾向的支持。在克里希纳的信徒圈子里，一些人意外地爆发了温和的粗俗言论，使他们感到困惑和震惊，而另一些人则感到迷惑，他们觉得他永远不会被粗俗所玷污，即使是他自己的粗俗，而且他的完美存在可以将这种行为提升到一个更高的水平。

   Once again the ?(r)process' continued with Krishna, on his own as at  Ojai, except for Nitya's presence. The agony he appeared to suffer was  again heartrending for the younger brother, now even more frail. In  California, Dr Strong had warned that Nitya should never return to  India or he might die. But as usual Nitya's well-being did not receive  first priority. Krishna disregarded medical opinion in preference to that  of the Masters ⌒ or his own judgment. Nitya's place beside Krishna in  the work had been so strongly emphasized by the Masters that it was  difficult for those who believed in them to think they would permit  anything to happen to Nitya. Krishna advised, just as he had advised  Rosalind, that Lady Emily should take her two youngest daughters,  Mary and Betty, to Leadbeater in Sydney to be ?(r)brought on'. He also  advocated the same course for Helen Knothe and Ruth Roberts, the  young woman he had found so attractive in Sydney in 1922. 
“过程”又一次在克里希纳身上继续进行，就像在奥海一样，除了尼提亚在场。他似乎遭受的痛苦再次让弟弟心碎，现在他更加虚弱了。在加利福尼亚，斯特朗医生警告尼提亚永远不要回到印度，否则他可能会死。但像往常一样，尼提亚的健康并没有得到优先考虑。克里希纳无视医学意见，更倾向于大师们的意见或他自己的判断。尼提亚在工作中与克里希纳并肩的地位被大师们如此强烈地强调，以至于那些相信他们的人很难认为他们会允许任何事情发生在尼提亚身上。克里希纳建议，就像他曾经建议罗莎琳德一样，爱米丽夫人应该把她的两个小女儿玛丽和贝蒂带到悉尼的利德比特那里去被培养。他还为海伦・诺斯和露丝・罗伯茨(Ruth Roberts)提倡同样的做法，后者是1922年他在悉尼发现的非常迷人的年轻女子。

    Mary Lutyens, at the age of sixteen, had developed a strong attach- ment for Nitya, whom she had known since she was three. It seems  unlikely that he could have felt more than a brotherly affection for her  for he had told both Krishna and Raja and others close to him such as  Mme de Manziarly and Mary's own mother, Lady Emily, that Rosalind  was the love of his life. But he had not yet told Mary. He did tell her that  he had haemorrhaged again just before they landed in Bombay. He had  also warned her that things would be very different once they reached  India, the constant crowds of people around Krishna, the meetings  each morning in his room, including all the ?(r)gopis', the group of  young women who had followed him from Europe. (Gopis, in Hindu  mythology, were the cow girls that flocked around Lord Krishna and  with one of whom, Radha, he fell in love.) 
玛丽・鲁琴斯十六岁时就对尼提亚产生了强烈的感情，她从三岁起就认识尼提亚了。他对她的感情似乎不太可能超过兄妹般的感情，因为他告诉克里希纳和拉贾，以及其他亲近的人，比如德・曼齐亚利夫人和玛丽的母亲艾米丽夫人，罗莎琳德是他一生的挚爱。但他还没有告诉玛丽。他确实告诉她了，就在他们抵达孟买之前，他又出血了。他还警告过她，一旦他们到了印度，情况就会大不一样了，克里希纳周围总是有一群人，每天早上在他的房间里开会，包括所有的“戈皮斯”(gopis)，一群跟着他从欧洲来的年轻女性。(在印度神话中，Gopis指的是簇拥在克里希纳神身边的牧牛女，而克里希纳神爱上了其中的拉达。)

    Nitya's condition declined from then on and he would never again  be strong. In India he tried to keep going and to accompany Krishna  on the arduous whirlwind of activities and meetings, but it was soon  evident that he was too ill to participate. 
从那时起，尼提亚的身体状况每况愈下，他再也不会强壮了。在印度，他试图继续前行，陪伴克里希纳参加各种活动和会议，但很快就发现他病得太重，无法参加了。

    There was another problem that no one would know of until Nitya  saw Rosalind again in Sydney. He was becoming increasingly disturbed  by Krishna's behaviour toward the Theosophists and in particular their  old friends and protectors. Privately to Nitya Krishna was making  sarcastic and sneering comments and paying no attention to his brother's  objections. Nitya's escalating illness may have made him more sensitive  than usual, but he felt he could not deter Krishna. Neither could he  endure behaviour which ultimately hurt him so deeply that he withdrew  from Krishna and preferred not to talk to him at all. Krishna, meanwhile,  appeared to be oblivious to his brother's feelings and continued in his behaviour and activities. He was elated to be back in Adyar, even though Nitya had not been able to accompany him. Nitya had gone up to the     hill station of Ootacamund with Mme de Manziarly to care for him. ?(r)Ooty' in those days was as close to paradise as one could get in India;  a pine-studded retreat that rose above tiers of coffee and tea plantations.  There was a maharaja's villa and many more modest and not so modest  villas of well-to-do British. There were clear lakes and mountain walks  and the friendly Toda tribal people who lived in huts on the hillsides.  But for Nitya, lying ill and lonely in an isolated cottage with no one  but Mme de Manziarly ⌒ devoted though she was ⌒ for company, life could not have been very bright. The significance of Nitya's silent withdrawal must finally have touched Krishna. One night he had a dream in which he had gone to the Master's  house to beg that Nitya would get well and live. Finally he was led to the Mahachohan himself, before whom he vowed that he would sacrifice anything if only Nitya could live. In telling of this vision, or visit, Krishna was admitting his direct experience with the Mahachohan, but  it did little to help Nitya, who felt himself once more on the edge of death. 
在悉尼，尼提亚再次见到罗莎琳德之前，还有一个问题没人知道。克里希纳对神智学家的行为，尤其是对他们的老朋友和保护者的行为，使他越来越不安。克里希纳私下里对尼提亚冷嘲热讽，根本不理会他弟弟的反对。尼提亚的病情加重可能使他比平时更加敏感，但他觉得自己无法阻止克里希纳。他也不能忍受那些最终深深伤害他的行为，以至于他离开克里希纳，宁愿根本不和他说话。与此同时，克里希纳似乎没有注意到他弟弟的感受，继续他的行为和活动。虽然尼提亚没能陪伴他，但他很高兴能回到阿迪亚。尼提亚和德・曼齐亚利太太到乌塔卡蒙德的山间车站去照顾他。在那些日子里，“Ooty”是印度最接近天堂的地方;这是一个松树丛生的隐居处，耸立在层层叠叠的咖啡和茶园之上。这里有一座王公的别墅，还有许多朴素的和不那么朴素的英国富人的别墅。那里有清澈的湖泊和山间小径，还有友好的户田部落居民，他们住在山坡上的棚屋里。要不是尼提亚生病了，孤独地躺在一间偏僻的小屋里，身边只有德・曼齐亚利夫人，尽管她很想陪伴他，但过得不会很美好。尼提亚沉默退出的意义，一定最终触动了克里希纳。一天晚上，他做了一个梦，梦见自己去了院长的家，祈求尼提亚康复，活下去。最后，他被带到马哈霍汗面前，他发誓只要尼提亚能活下来，他愿意牺牲一切。克里希纳在讲述这个异象或访问时，承认了他与摩诃汉的直接经历，但这对尼提亚没有什么帮助，他又一次感到自己处于死亡的边缘。

    Rosalind had arrived in Sydney in the previous June, 1924. On the  voyage down, there happened to be on board the American Davis cup  team, which made her time aboard ship anything but dreary with dances  every night and deck games during the day. What did the serious-minded  chaperon, Koos Van der Leeuw think of all this? At the time about forty,  he was a rather stern and upright Dutchman who felt it his duty to send  her to bed at a reasonable hour and to try to keep her mind on the  serious purpose for which she was going to Australia. While Rosalind  had even then a serious enough side to her nature, it is doubtful that he  was very successful in this endeavour. However, Koos and his brother Kees remained her close lifelong friends.  The Manor House was something of a monstrosity. Situated across the harbour from Sydney with a lovely view, it was inhabited by as  many as fifty people at a time. The overall management was soon assigned to the capable Koos, who put Rosalind in charge of the meals  and dining-room. Her knowledge of a proper vegetarian diet learned from John Ingelman was a great help to her. Being a vegetarian at  that time was not always easy and there were very few people who understood how to make a balanced diet of it.  Affairs at the house were in a bad way. The servants were unreliable and stole constantly, even though they all had impeccable references. 
罗莎琳德于1924年6月抵达悉尼。在往下航行时，恰好有美国戴维斯杯代表队在船上，这使她在船上的时光一点也不沉闷，每晚跳舞，白天玩甲板游戏。严肃的监护人库斯・范德卢对这一切有什么看法？当时他大约四十岁，是一个相当严厉和正直的荷兰人，他觉得自己有责任让她在合理的时间上床睡觉，并设法让她专心于她去澳大利亚的重要目的。虽然罗莎琳德在那时天性中有严肃的一面，但他在这方面的努力是否成功，还是值得怀疑的。然而，库斯和他的兄弟基斯仍然是她一生的亲密朋友。庄园有点像个怪物。它坐落在悉尼海港对面，拥有美丽的景色，当时居住着多达50人。很快，全面的管理工作就交给了能干的库斯，他让罗莎琳德负责餐饮和餐厅。她从约翰・英格尔曼那里学到的正确素食的知识对她帮助很大。在那个时候，做一个素食主义者并不容易，很少有人知道如何平衡饮食。家里的事情很糟糕。仆人们不可靠，经常偷东西，尽管他们都有无可挑剔的推荐人。

    One day Rosalind went down to the employment agency and sat and  watched applicants come and go. At length a rosy-cheeked young man  walked in who had a rustic and ingenuous appearance. ?(r)I will take  him,' she told the agent, who warned her that he had no references  or experience. ?(r)I will take him anyway.?± The young man turned out  to be hard working and devoted and ended up staying with Leadbeater  for many years. Although Rosalind worked hard, there was the com- panionship of other young people, the opportunity occasionally to go  riding in the hills, play tennis and to swim in the shark-ridden waters  (supposedly protected from sharks by nets across the harbour and a  watch that fired a cannon if sharks were spotted). 
一天，罗莎琳德来到职业介绍所，坐在那里看着求职者来来往往。最后，一个面色红润的年轻人走了进来，他的外表质朴而天真。“我要他了”，她对中介说，但中介警告她说，他既没有推荐人，也没有经验。“无论如何我都要带他走”。这个年轻人工作勤奋，尽心尽力，最终和利德比特一起生活了很多年。虽然罗莎琳德工作很努力，但她有其他年轻人的友谊，偶尔有机会去山上骑马，打网球，在鲨鱼出没的水域游泳(据说港口上有网保护鲨鱼，如果发现鲨鱼就会发射大炮)。


    On Hallowe'en night when there was a serious occult meeting going  on, Rosalind and some of her less pious friends dressed in sheets  and terrified the occupants of the hall by appearing in the windows.  Bishop Leadbeater could not have been too formidable if these young  people would dare play such a prank on him. Rosalind did annoy him  considerably once when she moved his cat off a chair on which she  hoped to sit.. As to training of any sort on a higher plane, there was  none that she could discern, unless it was taking place without her  awareness. 
在万圣节的晚上，有一个严肃的神秘学会议正在进行，罗莎琳德和她的一些不那么虔诚的朋友穿着床单，出现在大厅的窗户里，吓坏了大厅里的人。如果这些年轻人敢这样捉弄利德比特主教，他就不会太可怕了。有一次，罗莎琳德把他的猫从她想坐的椅子上挪了下来，确实惹恼了他。至于在更高层次上的任何训练，她都了解不了，除非是在她不知情的情况下进行的。

    Krishna and Nitya left India for Australia in early March 1925, still in  the company of Lady Emily, her two daughters and Jinarajadasa. There  were stops on the way in Colombo, Fremantle, Perth, Adelaide and  Melbourne, at several of which tracts of land were offered to Krishna  and thousands came to hear him speak. All this did Nitya no good  and the little ground his health had gained in Ootacamund was quickly  lost. During the voyage Krishna decided that they must return as soon  as possible to Ojai and take Rosalind from Sydney with them to look  after Nitya. By the time they arrived in Sydney Nitya had suffered  another haemorrhage. 
克里希纳和尼提亚于1925年3月初离开印度前往澳大利亚，艾米丽夫人、她的两个女儿和吉纳拉贾达萨(Jinarajadasa)陪伴着他们。途中，他在科伦坡、弗里曼特尔、珀斯、阿德莱德和墨尔本等地停留，其中几处都有大片土地供克里希纳使用，成千上万的人前来聆听他的演讲。这一切对尼提亚没有任何好处，他在乌塔卡蒙德获得的一点点健康很快就失去了。在航行中，克里希纳决定他们必须尽快回到奥海，把罗莎琳德从悉尼带回来照顾尼提亚。当他们到达悉尼时，尼提亚又一次大出血。

    On 3 April 1925, the brothers with their entourage sailed into Sydney  Harbour. One look at Nitya convinced Rosalind of his critical condition;  everyone concerned feared he would not get through the night. It was in  a quiet house away from the Manor on that first night that Nitya, ill as  he was, burst into sobs and told Rosalind how miserable he had been  over Krishna's behaviour toward the Theosophists, of his sarcasm and  the ridiculing even of Mrs Besant behind her back. Krishna had never  publicly, or privately so far as anyone has revealed, spoken a word  against Mrs Besant; therefore what Nitya had to say that night is an  extremely important glimpse into his brother's inner feelings. He was  the one person before whom Krishna would have felt safe to speak his mind. Nitya told Rosalind he was so upset over it that he had  not spoken to Krishna for three'months. He swore her to secrecy and  went on to say how the whole strain of that had added to his already  desperate condition. 
1925年4月3日，兄弟俩和他们的随从驶入悉尼港。看了尼提亚一眼，罗莎琳德就确信他的情况危急;每个人都担心他熬不过今晚。那天晚上，在远离庄园的一所安静的房子里，尼提亚虽然病了，却突然抽泣起来，告诉罗莎琳德，克里希纳对待神智学者的行为，他对贝赞特夫人的讽刺和嘲笑，让他感到多么痛苦。任何人都说，克里希纳从未公开或私下对贝赞特夫人说过一句坏话；因此，尼提亚那天晚上所说的话是对他哥哥内心感受的极其重要的一瞥。在他面前，克里希纳可以放心地说出自己的想法。尼提亚告诉罗莎琳德，他非常难过，已经三个月没和克里希纳说过话了。他让她发誓要保守秘密，接着又说，这一切是如何加重了他已经绝望的处境。

    Rosalind was concerned that night only for Nitya. When morning  came she could think of nothing else than that he was still alive. The  next day Krishna came to her in a most unhappy mood and begged  her to find out what was wrong. He could no longer avoid recognizing  that Nitya was upset with him. Rosalind was in a terrible position. She  had given her word to Nitya to say nothing. Yet fearing he would die  and leave Krishna in this state without a reconciliation, she broke her  word, although it caused her a great deal of pain to do so, and told  Krishna how Nitya felt about his behaviour, begging him to make up  the quarrel immediately and warning that if he gave her away she would  never forgive him. Krishna went to his brother at once and whatever he  said appeared to have relieved Nitya's distress. Krishna kept his promise  to Rosalind. 
罗莎琳德那天晚上只担心尼提亚。天亮了，她一心只想着他还活着。第二天，克里希纳闷闷不乐地来找她，求她查明是怎么回事。他再也不能不承认尼提亚生他的气了。罗莎琳德的处境很糟糕。她向尼提亚保证过什么也别说。然而，尼提亚担心他会死去，让克里希纳在这种状态下无法和解，于是违背了自己的诺言，尽管这样做给她带来了极大的痛苦，她告诉了克里希纳尼提亚对他行为的感受，恳求他立即弥补裂痕，并警告说，如果他把她送出去，她将永远不会原谅他。克里希纳立刻去找他弟弟，他说的话似乎减轻了尼提亚的痛苦。克里希纳信守了对罗莎琳德的承诺。

    Krishna was determined that Rosalind should return with them to  Ojai and gave her the impression that he had to stand up adamantly  to Leadbeater to ensure this. Leadbeater, Krishna said, felt she should  remain in Sydney. Leadbeater undoubtedly found her useful but may  well have had his more occult reasons too. However, Krishna won and  Leadbeater finally gave his blessing to her going back to Ojai. 
克里希纳决定让罗莎琳德和他们一起回到奥海，给她的印象是，他必须坚定地站在利德比特面前，以确保这一点。克里希纳说，利德比特觉得她应该留在悉尼。毫无疑问，利德比特觉得她很有用，但也可能有他更神秘的原因。然而，克里希纳赢了，利德比特最终祝福她回到奥海。

    In spite of his reconciliation with Nitya, Krishna found the schism  between himself and Leadbeater widening. He allowed his boredom to  show at the lengthy rituals that were all important in the Liberal Catholic  Church and he mocked the ?(r)gopis' for their participation, even though  he had suggested that they come to Sydney to be with Leadbeater. He  did not need to mock Rosalind. She had never developed any interest in  that aspett of Theosophy. In fact one might well wonder what benefit  on a spiritual or intellectual level her whole year in Sydney had been.  She had found a fair share of good times and had worked hard to keep  the Manor dining-room running smoothly. It was not in her nature to  question whether that year might have been better spent at Radcliffe,  where she was headed before Krishna took her destiny in his hands. 
尽管克里希纳与尼提亚和解，但他发现自己与利德比特之间的分歧正在扩大。他在冗长的仪式上表现出了自己的无聊，而这些仪式对自由天主教堂来说都是很重要的。他还嘲笑戈皮斯(gopis)的参与，尽管他曾建议她们来悉尼和利德比特在一起。他不需要嘲笑罗莎琳德。她对神智学的那个方面从来没有产生过任何兴趣。事实上，人们很可能想知道她在悉尼的一整年在精神或智力层面上有什么进步。她度过了不少愉快的时光，努力工作，使庄园的餐厅运转得很顺利。在克利希那把她的命运掌握在自己手中之前，她本来要去拉德克利夫学院，但她的天性并没有质疑这一年是否会更好。

    By June Nitya was pronounced by the specialist well enough to sail  to California. Krishna had sent for John Ingelman to come all the way  to Australia from Los Angeles to accompany them back, and help to  care for Nitya. 
到了六月，专家宣布尼提亚已经康复，可以航行到加利福尼亚了。克里希纳派约翰・英格曼从洛杉矶一路赶来澳大利亚，陪他们回来，帮助照顾尼提亚。
 