  9  A Left Turn 反转

    After receiving his MA and LLB Raja found himself at a critical point  in his life. He had just been offered a postgraduate place at Cambridge.  His tutor, of whom he had become very fond, was encouraging him to  accept it. But Mrs Besant asked him to give up the offer and help in the  work for the coming world teacher. She still believed, as did Leadbeater,  that Krishna was no more than the vehicle for this coming and that there  was yet a great deal of preparation to be made. Raja complied with her  request and declined the offer from Cambridge, not hesitating to follow  the path she advocated. 
在获得硕士和法学学士学位后，拉贾发现自己处于人生的关键时刻。他刚刚获得了剑桥大学的研究生名额。他很喜欢他的家庭教师，正鼓励他接受这份工作。但贝赞特夫人让他放弃这个提议，帮助即将到来的世界导师的工作。她仍然像利德比特一样相信，克里希纳只不过是这次降临的载体，还有许多准备工作要做。拉贾遵从了她的要求，拒绝了剑桥大学的邀请，毫不犹豫地走上了她所倡导的道路。

    Krishna had cancelled the Ommen camp for that summer of 1925,  realizing that because of Nitya's health they would have to remain in  Ojai. It was an indication of the growing rift between him and George  Arundale that Arundale decided to run it anyway, saying he and others  could carry on the Master's work without Krishna there. 
克里希纳意识到，由于尼提亚的健康状况，他们必须留在奥海，于是取消了1925年夏天的欧门营。这表明他和乔治・阿伦代尔之间的裂痕越来越大，阿伦代尔决定无论如何都要经营它，说他和其他人可以在没有克里希纳的情况下继续大师的工作。

    In July, before the camp was to start, George had gathered a group  at Huizen in Holland. At his urging Mrs Besant had changed her plans  in order to join them there as extraordinary initiations were said to  be taking place. George announced the acceleration of his young wife  Rukmini's advancement along ?(r)the Path'. 

7月，在夏令营开始之前，乔治在荷兰的惠曾召集了一群人。在他的敦促下，贝赞特夫人改变了计划，为了加入他们，据说那里正在举行特别的启蒙仪式。乔治宣布他年轻的妻子鲁克米尼(Rukmini)沿着“正道”加速前进。

    Raja accompanied Mrs Besant, Lady Emily and Shiva Rao on the night  train to Huizen. In an atmosphere of intense excitement, he received his  second initiation and was made a deacon in the Liberal Catholic Church.  He would also be considered as one of twelve apostles. Although there  was some confusion as to who exactly the twelve were, they included  Mrs Besant, Leadbeater, Jinarajadasa, George, Rukmini, Nitya, Raja  and Lady Emily. 
拉贾陪着贝赞特夫人、艾米丽夫人和希瓦・拉奥乘坐夜车前往惠曾。在一种强烈的兴奋气氛中，他接受了第二次启蒙，并被任命为自由天主教会的执事。他也被认为是十二使徒之一。虽然人们对这12个人的确切身份有些困惑，但他们包括贝赞特夫人、利德比特、吉那拉贾达萨、乔治、鲁克米尼、尼提亚、拉贾和艾米丽夫人。

    One day during this time at Huizen, Rukmini and Raja were alone  with Mrs Besant, taking their initiation in the Co-Masonic Lodge, when  suddenly Rukmini was overcome by giggles which soon infected Raja.  They struggled with their hands over their faces to conceal this from  Mrs Besant, never feeling certain whether she noticed or not. According  to Rukmini, Raja had always been shy but was trying to get over it, as Leadbeater said shyness was a form of pride. In spite of the giggles  Rukmini felt that from this time on Raja's nature changed. He told her  then that he wished his character to develop more in the direction of  Mrs Besant's, to become more serious and purposeful.! 
在惠曾的这段时间里，有一天，鲁克米尼和拉贾单独和贝赞特夫人在共济会分会接受他们的启蒙仪式，突然，鲁克米尼被咯咯的笑声所征服，很快感染了拉贾。他们使劲用手捂着脸，不让贝赞特夫人看见，也不敢肯定她是否注意到了。据鲁克米尼说，拉贾一直很害羞，但正在努力克服它，因为利德比特说害羞是一种骄傲。鲁米尼觉得，从这一刻起，拉贾的本性发生了变化。然后他告诉她，他希望自己的性格能朝着贝赞特夫人的方向发展，变得更严肃、更有目的性。

    Raja's furtherinitiations were abruptly interrupted when Krishna wrote  asking him to come immediately to California to help with Nitya. After  consulting with Mrs Besant, who said he should go if he wished, Raja left  Huizen on 3 August, arriving in Ojai on 24 August. He found Rosalind  and Krishna exhausted. Nitya had recently suffered another serious  haemorrhage. Rosalind was still the one to carry the major burden  of nursing Nitya, and the presence of Raja under these grave and sad  circumstances would be the cornerstone for a long-lasting relationship  between Krishna, Rosalind and him. 
当克里希纳写信要求拉贾立即到加利福尼亚帮助尼提亚时，拉贾的进一步启蒙突然中断了。在与贝桑特夫人协商后(贝桑特夫人说如果他愿意就可以去)，拉贾于8月3日离开惠曾，于8月24日抵达奥海。他发现罗莎琳德和克里希纳精疲力竭。尼提亚最近又遭受了一次严重的出血。罗莎琳德仍然承担着照顾尼提亚的主要责任，而拉贾在这种严重而悲伤的情况下的存在，将成为克里希纳、罗莎琳德和他之间长期关系的基石。

    Meanwhile in Holland the scene of spiritual advancements had moved  from Huizen to the Ommen Camp, where it was disclosed that Krishna  and Rukmini had arrived at the fourth or arhat level of initiations and  were therefore allowed to ask special boons. According to George  Arundale, who seemed to have a unique vantage point from the astral  plane, Krishna had asked for Nitya's life and Rukmini for a closer union  between England and India. The first of these wishes would be denied,  the second delayed for many years. Nevertheless, the wheels were still  grinding and on the last day of camp it was announced that Mrs Besant,  Leadbeater, Krishna, Jinarajadasa and Arundale had all taken their fifth  and final initiation ⌒ but they still expected to be treated as before by  those struggling along on the lower levels. 
与此同时，在荷兰，灵性进步的场景已经从惠曾转移到欧门营地，在那里，据披露克里希纳和鲁克米尼已经到达了第四或罗汉层次的提升，因此被允许请求特殊的恩惠。乔治・阿伦代尔(George Arundale)似乎在星光层拥有独特的优势，据他说，克里希纳曾要求放尼提亚一命，而鲁克米尼则要求英国和印度建立更紧密的联盟。第一个愿望将被拒绝，第二个愿望将被推迟许多年。然而，轮子仍然在转动，在营地的最后一天，宣布贝桑特夫人、利德比特、克里希纳、吉那拉贾达萨和阿伦代尔都进行了第五次也是最后一次启蒙，但他们仍然希望被那些在较低层次上挣扎的人像以前一样对待。

    In Ojai, Raja found that Krishna was very disturbed by what he  had heard of the happenings at Huizen and had already written to  question Lady Emily as to whether or not Leadbeater had confirmed  them. Leadbeater had, in fact, cast serious doubt and disapproval on  the whole business and would continue to do so. Krishna had not  revealed in his letters to Mrs Besant how strongly he felt, although  he had written of his distress to Lady Emily, asking her to destroy  these letters for fear of revealing to others his criticism of Mrs Besant,  who was now taking full authority for the proclamations. 
在奥海，拉贾发现克里希纳对他听到的惠曾发生的事情感到非常不安，并已经写信询问艾米莉夫人，利德比特是否证实了这些事情。事实上，利德比特对整个事情表示了严重的怀疑和反对，并将继续这样做。克里希纳在给贝赞特夫人的信中没有透露他有多么强烈的感受，尽管他在给艾米丽夫人的信中表达了他的痛苦，要求她销毁这些信，以免让别人知道他对贝赞特夫人的批评，因为贝赞特夫人现在全权负责这些声明。

    Apparently Krishna did not believe in or approve of the idea of the  apostles or the rapid imtiations which had taken place. However, he  said he still believed in the Masters, and believed that they would not  let anything happen to Nitya as they had stated that he was essential  to ?(r)the Work'. 
显然，克里希纳不相信或不赞成使徒的想法，也不赞成已经发生的快速模仿。然而，他说他仍然相信大师，并相信他们不会让尼提亚发生任何事情，因为他们曾说过他对“工作”至关重要。

    The strain of seeing his brother so ill sometimes caused Krishna to  needle him into a will to live. Once he even told him that in a vision the Mahachohan himself had said that Nitya must pull himself together  and get well or he might die. Raja found such tactics as surprising  as the frequent tension between the brothers, which he could not  avoid noticing. One afternoon, when Krishna was in the living-room  discussing some arrangements with a young Theosophist, Nitya became  quite agitated and asked Raja to ?(r)go and keep an eye on Krishna and  see what he is up to'. It is probable that Nitya alone realized the  seriousness of the inner revolution that was simmering in Krishna and  which sometimes boiled over in the form of increasing disrespect toward  the Theosophical leaders. With Mrs Besant unquestioningly accepting  George's announcements about the initiations, with Leadbeater isolated  in Australia, and with Nitya evidently untouched by the doubts which  were more and more besetting him, Krishna was certainly in a delicate  position. Having been proclaimed an arhat, even though he had to  share that distinction with Rukmini, was he then to question the whole  performance at Huizen and Ommen? It must have become clear to him  at about this time that he would have to find a way out for himself  from what he saw as a rapid descent towards the ridiculous. 
看到他的兄弟病得如此之重，有时使克里希纳给他刺上一针，使他坚定活下去的决心。有一次，他甚至告诉他，在一个幻象中，马哈霍汗本人说尼提亚必须振作起来，否则他可能会死。拉贾发现这种策略和兄弟之间频繁的紧张关系一样令人惊讶，他无法避免地注意到这一点。一天下午，当克里希纳在客厅与一位年轻的神智学者讨论一些安排时，尼提亚变得非常激动，并要求拉贾“去监视克里希纳，看看他在做什么”。很可能只有尼提亚意识到内在革命的严重性，这种革命正在克里希纳体内酝酿，有时会以对神智学领袖越来越不尊重的形式爆发出来。由于贝桑特夫人毫无疑问地接受了乔治关于入会仪式的通告，由于利德比特被孤立在澳大利亚，由于尼提亚显然没有受到越来越困扰他的疑问的影响，克里希纳的处境当然是微妙的。在被宣布为罗汉之后，即使他不得不与鲁克米尼分享这一荣誉，他还会质疑在惠曾和欧门发生的事吗？大约在这个时候，他一定很清楚，他必须为自己找到一条出路，从他所看到的迅速向荒谬的堕落中解脱出来。

    Mrs Besant had expressed the hope that Krishna would attend the  Theosophical Jubilee in Adyar that autumn. It was still of utmost  importance to him not to offend her and he had yet to work out the  careful course he must tread through the polarizing factions within the  society. By October he felt there was enough improvement in Nitya's  health to allow him to comply with Mrs Besant's wishes. Raja, who  was expected to go too, was surprised by Krishna's insistence that  Rosalind should leave Nitya and accompany them. Rosalind was most  reluctant to do so. Without her knowledge, Krishna had arranged for  Mme de Manziarly to come from India and arrive in time to take over  the care of Nitya while they were all away. Considering, in that age of  travel, the time involved that it would take to implement such plans,  it certainly was not a last-minute decision. According to her daughter  Mima, Mme de Manziarly knew the moment she saw Nitya that he  was dying. Probably Nitya knew too. But Krishna, whether by fact  or illusion said he had received in person, direct confirmation, not only  from the Masters, but from the Mahachohan himself, that Nitya's life  was essential to ?(r)the Work', therefore he could not die. Also, he and  Rosalind had both been assured by Dr Strong that ?(r)the thread of life  was turning upward and that Nitya would live'. 
贝赞特夫人曾表示希望克里希纳能参加那年秋天在阿迪亚举行的神智学禧年。对他来说，最重要的还是不要冒犯她，他还需要在社会上两极分化的派系之间谨慎行事。到了10月，他觉得尼提亚的健康状况有了足够的改善，他可以按照贝赞特夫人的意愿行事了。本来也要去的拉贾，对克里希纳坚持让罗莎琳德离开尼提亚和他们一起去感到惊讶。罗莎琳德非常不愿意这样做。在她不知情的情况下，克里希纳安排德・曼齐亚利太太从印度赶来，趁他们都不在的时候，及时照顾尼提亚。考虑到在那个旅行的年代，实施这样的计划需要时间，这当然不是最后一刻的决定。据她的女儿Mima说，德・曼齐亚利夫人看到尼提亚的那一刻就知道他快死了。也许尼提亚也知道。但克里希纳，无论是事实还是幻觉，说他亲自得到了直接的证实，不仅从大师那里，而且从马哈霍汗本人那里，尼提亚的生命对“工作”是必不可少的，因此他不能死。此外，斯特朗博士还向他和罗莎琳德保证，“生命的迹象正在好转，尼提亚会活下来。”

    Rosalind, suffering from an acute case of urticaria, a severe skin rash  brought on by exhaustion, had allowed herself to be reassured by this  too. She had been caring for Nitya night and day for many months without a break. It was a tragic error ⌒ certainly for those who loved  Nitya and would have wanted to be with him to the end. 
罗莎琳德患有急性荨麻疹，这是一种由疲劳引起的严重皮疹，她也让自己放心了。几个月来，她日夜不停地照顾尼提亚。对于那些爱尼提亚的人来说，这无疑是一个悲剧性的错误，他们本想和他相伴到最后。

    One day Nitya talked very seriously to both Raja and Rosalind, asking  them to promise that no matter what the difficulties, they would always  stay with Krishna. Later they would look on this as a solemn deathbed  promise. In the far distant future this vow would prove to be a terrible  millstone around Raja's neck. 
一天，尼提亚非常严肃地对拉贾和罗莎琳德说，要她们保证无论遇到什么困难，都要永远和克里希纳在一起。后来，他们把这看作是一个庄严的临终承诺。在遥远的未来，这个誓言将被证明是拉贾脖子上的沉重负担。

    On the day of departure, Rosalind, distraught and exhausted and still  reluctant to leave, threw her things in a suitcase and ran out of the house,  not even noticing that she had no proper shoes until she was on the way  to the railway station. Mary Gray kindly took her own shoes off her  feet and gave them to her. 
出发那天，罗莎琳德心烦意乱，筋疲力尽，但仍然不愿离开，她把东西扔进手提箱，跑出了家，直到去火车站的路上才发现自己没有合适的鞋子。玛丽・格雷好心地把自己的鞋子脱下来给了她。

    The voyage to England calmed and rested them. Although Raja did  not completely share Krishna's evolving doubts, by standing with  Krishna at this moment he and Rosalind were together taking a new  direction which would drastically alter their lives. Yet they had and  would continue to have quite separate views of Krishna, just as they  had of Theosophy. 
去英国的航行使他们平静下来，休息了下来。虽然拉贾并不完全认同克里希纳不断演变的疑虑，但此刻站在克里希纳一边，他和罗莎琳德一起走上了一个将彻底改变他们生活的新方向。然而，就像他们对神智学的看法一样，他们对克里希纳有并且将继续有截然不同的看法。

    Rosalind had never espoused the occult aspects of Theosophy and  had not herself even joined the society. Erma had in fact joined her  up as a life member. But if Rosalind was aware of this at all at the  time, she would later forget it. She had a tremendous love and respect  for many Theosophists, Mrs Besant, Miss Dodge and several others,  to say nothing of her own sister Erma, and would not have let any  difference of belief impose on those relationships. 
罗莎琳德从来没有支持过神智学的神秘方面，她自己也没有加入过这个社团。事实上，爱玛已经成为她的终身会员。但如果罗莎琳德当时意识到这一点，她后来就会忘记它。她对许多神智学家，如贝桑特夫人、道奇小姐和其他几位神智学家都怀有极大的热爱和尊敬，更不用说她自己的姐姐爱玛了，她不会让任何信仰上的差异影响到这些关系。

    She had reservations about Krishna where his role as the vehicle was  concerned. One would have to believe that there are Masters in order  to believe that they had chosen him to be the vehicle for the incarnation  of the Lord Maitreya. Rosalind had neither denied nor accepted this  belief buthad simply watched, without feeling either intellectually or  spiritually involved. Her background may have played a role in this  attitude. Even if she had not been sceptical by nature, her father had  been during most of her childhood an agnostic, if not an atheist, and  had expressed strong feelings against spiritualism. He had insisted on  selling a lovely summer retreat that Sophia's family had owned, simply  because of its proximity to a spiritualist centre called Lily Dell. It is true  that Erma had managed to espouse Theosophy in spite of her father,  but she had been driven away from home by his disapproval. 
她对克里希纳作为载体工具的角色有所保留。一个人必须相信有上师，才能相信他们选择了他作为弥勒菩萨转世的载体。罗莎琳德既不否认也不接受这个信念，只是单纯地看着，既没有智力上的感受，也没有精神上的感受。她的背景可能对这种态度起了一定作用。即使她不是天生的怀疑论者，在她童年的大部分时间里，她的父亲即使不是无神论者，也是一个不可知论者，并且强烈反对唯灵论。他坚持要卖掉索菲亚家族拥有的一处美丽的避暑山庄，仅仅是因为它靠近一个名为莉莉戴尔的通灵中心。的确，尽管她的父亲反对，爱玛还是成功地信奉了神智学，但她被父亲的反对赶出了家门。

    Raja on the other hand, had been surrounded since birth by the devout  Hinduism of his mother and the Theosophica! ideals of his father. Until  this point he had no reason to question the utterances of the Theosophical leaders. Now there were serious differences among these leaders, but  none of this would shake his deep inner faith in a destiny somehow  purposefully guided by the Masters. Nor would he ever lose sight of  what he personally owed to Leadbeater and Mrs Besant. This was an  important distinction between Raja and Krishna. 

另一方面，拉贾从出生起就被他母亲虔诚的印度教和他父亲的理想的神智学所包围。在此之前，他没有理由质疑神智学领袖的言论。这些领袖之间存在着严重的分歧，但这些都不会动摇他内心深处对命运的信念，他相信命运是由大师们有意引导的。他也永远不会忘记他个人对利德比特和贝赞特夫人的亏欠。这是拉贾和克里希纳之间的一个重要区别。

    While Krishna was deeply distressed and unhappy about the events  at Huizen and the pronouncements at the Ommen Camp, he was afraid  that if he were to openly speak against all these things in which he  disbelieved totally, they would say he had failed and was taken over  by the dark forces. He claimed to have tried several times to speak to  Mrs Besant, but she did not take it all in. There is a different version,  however, of the way in which Krishna dealt with this problem. 
虽然克里希纳对惠曾的事件和欧门营的声明深感痛苦和不快，但他担心，如果他公开反对所有这些他完全不相信的事情，他们会说他失败了，被黑暗势力接管了。他声称曾多次试图和贝赞特夫人交谈，但她并没有完全接受。然而，克里希纳处理这个问题的方式有一个不同的版本。

    Krishna rejected all the revelations about Initiations and Apostles,  the World Religion and World University and such things, but was  unwilling to tell Mrs Besant himself. But he was determined that she  must be told. He sent Professor Marcault, an official of the World  University, to break the news whilst he, Krishna, remained in the car  outside Mrs Beasant's London residence. Marcault told Mrs Besant  as simply as he could and departed, leaving her deathly pale and  severely shocked. For some time afterwards she was physically ill,  and thereafter showed signs of rapid aging, loss of memory and a  tendency to focus on the past. She was torn between a series of  opposed loyalties and demands and remained in a state of uncertainty  and conflict for the rest of her life.2 
克里希纳拒绝了所有关于启蒙和使徒、世界宗教和世界大学之类的启示，但不愿意亲自告诉贝赞特夫人。但是他决定一定要告诉她。他派世界大学的一名官员马尔考特教授去宣布这个消息，而他克里希纳则留在贝赞特夫人伦敦住所外的汽车里。马尔考尽可能简单地告诉了贝赞特夫人，然后离开了，留下她死一般的苍白和严重的震惊。在那之后的一段时间里，她出现了身体不适，并表现出快速衰老、记忆力减退和倾向于关注过去的迹象。她在一系列对立的忠诚和要求之间左右为难，在她的余生中一直处于一种不确定和冲突的状态

    On 3 November 1925 Mrs Besant, with her entourage, boarded ship  for India. Rosalind was sharing a cabin with Lady Emily and Krishna  with Shiva Rao. They stopped briefly in Rome, where they were joined  by George Arundale and Rukmini. Now it was Krishna's turn to be  reprimanded by the Mahachohan ⌒ through George as intermediary.  Krishna was reproved for his scepticism, and warned that he could  ruin his chances. 
1925年11月3日，贝赞特夫人和她的随从登上了开往印度的船。罗莎琳德和艾米丽夫人同住一间小屋，克里希纳和希瓦・拉奥同住一间小屋。他们在罗马短暂停留，乔治・阿伦代尔和鲁克米尼加入了他们的行列。现在轮到克里希纳通过乔治作为中间人受到马哈霍汗的斥责。克里希纳因他的怀疑而受到谴责，并警告他可能会毁掉他的机会。

    This voyage was certainly not destined to be easy. Rosalind, Krishna  and the Arundales spent a good deal of time on deck playing bridge. One  can imagine that the atmosphere around the bridge table must have been  tense, with Rosalind pining for Nitya, the increasing hostility between  Krishna and George, and George's irritation with Rukmini, whose eyes  sometimes followed her old childhood friend, Raja, as he paced around  the deck. 
这次航行注定不容易。罗莎琳德、克里希纳和阿伦代尔一家花了很多时间在甲板上打桥牌。可以想象，桥牌桌上的气氛一定很紧张，罗莎琳德思念尼提亚，克里希纳和乔治之间的敌意日益加剧，乔治对鲁克米尼很生气，鲁克米尼在甲板上踱来踱去时，眼睛有时会跟着她儿时的老朋友拉贾。

    Just one day after sailing from Naples they received a telegram saying that Nitya had the flu. Five days later at Port Said they received a  telegram from Nitya saying his flu was more serious and asking for  their prayers. 
就在从那不勒斯起航的第二天，他们收到一封电报，说尼提亚得了流感。五天后，在塞得港，他们收到了尼提亚发来的电报，说他的流感更严重了，并请求他们为他祈祷。

    In spite of the scepticism that Krishna had recently exhibited, he still  believed that the Masters would not have let him leave Ojai if Nitya  were going to die. That night George suggested they all go to bed and  try to get in touch with the Masters about Nitya. The next morning  he reported that Nitya was destined to go on to great things, both  in Krishna's future and in India's. All felt he would be well, except  Rosalind, who told only Lady Emily about her experience. It was quite  different from everyone else's. She saw Nitya with a white silk scarf  around his neck and she knew he was dying. He seemed in good spirits  and happy to talk to her. He told her many things and said she must  remember this conversation. She said she was a ?(r)doubting Thomas' and  how could she be sure when she woke up that it was not just a dream?  She remembers his eyes looking around the room and then fixing on  the scarf around his throat. 
尽管克里希纳最近表现出怀疑，但他仍然相信，如果尼提亚要死了，大师们不会让他离开奥海。那天晚上，乔治建议大家都上床睡觉，设法和大师取得联系，谈谈尼提亚的事。第二天早上，他报告说尼提亚注定要在克里希纳的未来和印度的未来取得伟大的成就。大家都觉得他会好起来的，除了罗莎琳德，她只把自己的感受告诉了爱米丽夫人，它和别人的很不一样。她看到尼提亚脖子上围着一条白色丝巾，她知道他快死了。他似乎精神很好，很高兴和她说话。他告诉她很多事情，并说她一定要记住这次谈话。她说她是一个怀疑托马斯的人，当她醒来时，她怎么能确定这不是一场梦呢?她记得他的眼睛环视了一下房间，然后盯着围在喉咙上的围巾。

    ?(r)Remember this scarf,?± he told her. 
    She asked him why he had the scarf around his neck and he said  his throat was very sore. She was puzzled by it because she did not  recognize it as an article of his clothing, each piece of which she knew  well as she had so often done his packing. 
还记得这条围巾吗?他告诉她。
她问他为什么把围巾围在脖子上，他说他的喉咙很痛。她对此感到不解，因为她不知道那是他的一件衣服，她对每一件衣服都很熟悉，因为她经常帮他收拾行李。

    Lady Emily asked her not to tell Krishna what she had seen as it  would upset him. That same morning a telegram came informing them  of Nitya's death. It had been sent during the night but had been held up  by a violent thunderstorm as they were entering the Suez Canal. Later,  when Mme de Manziarly arrived in Adyar with Nitya's ashes, Rosalind  asked her about the scarf and she said it was her scarf which she had put  around Nitya's throat because it was sore. While so many around her  were-claiming to have the most incredible occult experiences, Rosalind  never made much of that one very real and poignant final moment with  Nitya. With a resilience that she would display throughout her life,  she kept her grief deep within her. By the time they reached Adyar,  Krishna too seemed outwardly recovered from signs of grief, at least  in public. Yet Nitya's death meant more to him than the loss of his  brother. It meant also that he had allowed himself to be swayed by  false illusions. He had evidently believed until that moment that the  Masters would protect and guide him. Now he felt not only betrayed  but doubtful of the Masters' very existence. It was the beginning of his  overt break with Theosophy. 
爱米丽夫人要求她不要告诉克里希纳她所看到的，因为这会使他不安。就在当天早晨，他们接到了尼提亚去世的电报。这封信是在夜间发出的，但在他们进入苏伊士运河时被一场猛烈的雷暴所耽搁。后来，当德・曼齐亚利夫人带着尼提亚的骨灰来到阿迪亚时，罗萨琳德问她围巾的事，她说那是她的围巾，她把它围在尼提亚的喉咙上，因为它很痛。虽然她周围的很多人都声称自己有最不可思议的神秘经历，但罗莎琳德从来没有重视过和尼提亚在一起的那个非常真实和痛苦的最后时刻。在她的一生中，她都表现出一种坚韧的精神，她把悲伤深深埋在心里。当他们到达阿迪亚时，克里希纳看起来也从悲伤的迹象中恢复了过来，至少在公开场合是这样。然而，对他来说，尼提亚的死比失去弟弟更重要。这也意味着他让自己被虚假的幻想所左右。在那一刻之前，他显然一直相信大师们会保护和引导他。现在他不仅觉得自己被出卖了，而且对大师们的存在产生了怀疑。这是他与神智学公开决裂的开始。

    At Adyar Rosalind stayed with Lady Emily and a large group of young girls, while Raja and Krishna moved into their old rooms at  the headquarters building. 
在阿迪亚，罗莎琳德和爱米莉夫人以及一大群年轻女孩住在一起，而拉贾和克里希纳则搬进了总部大楼的旧房间。

    As Rosalind was still suffering from the urticaria that had plagued  her in Ojai, and was reluctant to be seen, she felt touched by the great  care and kindness Krishna showed in keeping her near him during the  day and letting her rest in his spacious apartment, tenderly treating  her affliction. Rosalind assumed, quite naturally, that this was for her  sake, but one day Helen Knothe came and hugged her and said how  important it was for Krishna to be with her because of her closeness to  Nitya. Helen, because of Krishna's previous attachment to her, might  well have anticipated that he would now turn solely to her for comfort;  her words to Rosalind show her lack of pettiness. Yet, as we shall see,  he did not exclude Helen either. Krishna said that he and Nitya were  now one in body and spirit, which might explain his need to be close to  the person Nitya had so deeply loved. But just as valid an explanation  could be that Nitya was no longer between him and Rosalind. Krishna  had not, after all, hesitated in his insistence on taking Rosalind to India  and denying his critically ill brother the solace of her care. 
罗莎琳德在奥海的荨麻疹一直困扰着她，她不愿被人看见，但她被克里希纳的关怀和仁慈所感动，白天，他把她留在身边，让她在他宽敞的公寓里休息，温柔地治疗她的痛苦。罗莎琳德很自然地以为这是为她着想，但有一天，海伦・诺斯走过来拥抱了她，说克里希纳和她在一起是多么重要，因为她和尼提亚很亲近。海伦，由于克里希纳先前对她的依恋，很可能预料到他现在只会向她寻求安慰;她对罗莎琳德说的话表明她并不小气。然而，正如我们将看到的，他也没有把海伦排除在外。克里希纳说，他和尼提亚现在在身体和精神上都是一体的，这也许可以解释他为什么需要接近尼提亚深爱的人。但同样合理的解释是，尼提亚已经不在他和罗莎琳德之间了。毕竟，克里希纳毫不犹豫地坚持要把罗莎琳德带到印度，不让他病危的弟弟得到她照顾的安慰。

    But while Krishna had drawn closer to Rosalind, Rosalind had drawn  closer to Raja. One evening to get the cool air, she and Raja had gone  up the outside staircase of the headquarters and were sitting on the flat  roof, momentarily setting aside the strain and unhappiness of the past  months, talking and laughing and enjoying the lovely view which swept  over the compound and across the river. Suddenly Krishna appeared  and, directing his annoyance entirely at Raja, asked just what they were  doing up there. They had not remembered that they were right over  his room, but Raja had the distinct feeling he was being reprimanded  for enjoying these few moments alone with Rosalind. Many years later  Helen would recall that she and Krishna were together in his room  when they heard Rosalind and Raja on the roof and that Krishna  was shocked that they could laugh and joke so soon after Nitya's  death.
但是，当克里希纳越来越接近罗莎琳德时，罗莎琳德也越来越接近拉贾。一天晚上，为了透点凉风，她和拉贾上了总部外面的楼梯，坐在平顶上，把过去几个月的紧张和不快暂时搁在一边，有说有笑，欣赏着大院和河对岸的美丽景色。克里希纳突然出现，把他的烦恼完全指向拉贾，问他们在上面做什么。他们不记得他们就在他的房间上方，但拉贾有一种明显的感觉，他因为和罗莎琳德单独在一起而受到了谴责。许多年后，海伦回忆说，当她和克里希纳在他的房间里听到罗莎琳德和拉贾在屋顶上的声音时，克里希纳很震惊，在尼提亚死后这么快，他们就能大笑和开玩笑了。

    Meanwhile Leadbeater expressed his frank disapproval of the hap- penings in Holland. He did not believe anyone had so rapidly passed  initiations which he and Mrs Besant only hoped to do in their next life.  That any of them should have passed the fifth initiation and be on the  same plane as the Masters was totally unacceptable. Even as the vehicle,  Krishna was not expected to attain that height and his vehicleship was  still in question as far as Leadbeater was concerned. This did not deter  Leadbeater from relaying his own version of initiations and the faction  led by George began to hint that Leadbeater's powers were failing him or, worse, that the ?(r)blacks' had got him. The unpleasant implication  would soon be applied to Krishna as well. 
与此同时，利德比特坦率地表示不认同荷兰发生的事情。他不相信会有人这么快就通过了他和贝赞特夫人指望下辈子能参加的启蒙仪式。他们中的任何一个人都应该通过第五次印心并且与大师们在同一层面上，这是完全不可接受的。即使作为载体，克里希纳也不希望达到那个高度，就利德比特而言，他的载体仍然存在问题。这并没有阻止利德比特讲述他自己版本的启蒙仪式，乔治领导的派系开始暗示，利德比特的力量正在辜负他，或者更糟的是，黑暗已经抓住了他。这种不愉快的暗示很快也被应用到克里希纳身上。

    These conflicts within the inner circle did not dim an undercurrent  of great excitement and expectation in the less advanced, among whom  word had spread that the Lord would manifest himselfin Krishna during  the Jubilee. When scores of people all expect the same happening, which  they had all read about, heard about, and dreamed of for more than a  decade, it is not entirely surprising that they should indeed all see it  come to pass ⌒ at least most of them. 
内部圈子内的这些冲突并没有减弱下层社会中巨大兴奋和期待的暗流，在他们中间，主在禧年期间在克里希纳身上显现的消息已经传播开来。当许多人都期待同样的事情发生时，他们都读到过，听说过，梦想了十多年，他们确实都看到它发生了，这并不完全令人惊讶，至少他们中的大多数人是这样。

    On 29 December 1925 in his talk to members under the great banyan  tree, Krishna suddenly changed his use of personal pronoun from the  third to the first. Those like the Arundales, who had reservations about  the vehicle's readiness, claim to have noticed nothing out of the ordinary  and merely thought he was quoting scripture when he said: ?(r)He comes to  lead us,?± and then switched to: ?(r)I come not to destroy but to build.' 
1925年12月29日，克里希纳在大榕树下与成员谈话时，突然将人称代词的使用从第三改为第一。像阿伦达尔这样的人，对这载体的准备情况持保留态度，声称没有注意到任何异常，只是认为他在引用经文时说:“他来带领我们”，然后又转换成:“我来不是为了破坏，而是为了建设。”

    Rosalind, who had been with Krishna while he dressed and prepared  with unusual care for this talk, had been somewhat surprised when he  suddenly said, ?°You watch! I''m going to show them something.?± And  she did notice the extraordinary magnetic power he scemed to cast over  his audience. 
罗莎琳德在克里希纳精心打扮，和准备这次演讲时一直陪在他身边，当他突然说:“你看着!”我要给他们看样东西“。她确实注意到他似乎对听众产生了非凡的吸引力。


    This was a critical moment in Krishna's life, for Mrs Besant took the  change of person and, as some noticed, the change of voice as evidence  that the coming had begun. 
这是克里希纳生命中的关键时刻，因为贝赞特夫人把克里希纳变了个人，而且正如一些人注意到的那样，把声音的变化看作是降临已经开始的证据。

    Leadbeater, at this time, was giving Krishna his full support, saying  there was no doubt that He had used the vehicle and would continue  to use it, but only intermittently, in other words on appropriate occasions,  not when the vehicle was eating or taking trains. 
此时，利德比特给予了克里希纳全力支持，说：毫无疑问，他(弥赛亚)已经使用了这载体，并将继续使用它，但只是间歇性地，换句话说，在适当的场合，而不是在载体吃饭或乘坐火车的时候。

    For the moment, Krishna accepted this position and did not push for  more, although the time would come very soon when being a mere  vehicle was not nearly enough. 
目前，克里希纳接受了这个位置，并没有要求更多，尽管时间很快就会到来，仅仅作为一个载体是远远不够的。

    Meanwhile Rosalind was travelling through India with Lady Emily  and her daughters and staying in luxurious homes like that of Lady  Emily's brother, Lord Lytton, Governor of Bengal. A few months  later she travelled with Mrs Besant in a very different style, staying  with Indians and really getting to know the people and the country.  With Raja, she visited the small village near Madanapalle, Krishna's  birthplace, where as a boy of sixteen Raja had started the school of  adult education in conjunction with the college near by. All the villagers  came out with garlands to greet them. She met many Indians with  whom she would be lifelong friends and she also met Raja's mother, although neither of them guessed at that time what their relationship  was to be. 
与此同时，罗莎琳德与爱米莉夫人和她的女儿们在印度旅行，住在豪华的房子里，就像爱米莉夫人的哥哥、孟加拉总督利顿勋爵的房子一样。几个月后，她以一种完全不同的方式和贝赞特夫人一起旅行，和印度人住在一起，真正了解了那里的人民和国家。她和拉贾一起参观了克里希纳的出生地Madanapalle附近的一个小村庄。16岁时，拉贾就在那里开办了一所成人教育学校，与附近的一所大学相结合。所有的村民都拿着花环出来迎接他们。她遇到了许多印度人，并与他们成为了一生的朋友，她还遇到了拉贾的母亲，尽管当时他们都没有想到他们的关系是什么。

    Raja was now asked by Mrs Besant to take over all the work of the  Star which Nitya had been expected to do had he lived. In reality Nitya  would probably not have had the strength to shoulder the burden of  what the Star was to become. No one then foresaw that Krishna would  sever his relationship with the Theosophical Society and need his own  independent organization to fund and make possible his continual travels  for worldwide talks and meetings. Raja had displayed an early talent for  this work, which Leadbeater had seen when he first chose the young  Raja to be one of his special pupils, and of which Mrs Besant had been  well aware for many years. She clearly reaffirmed her faith in Raja's  abilities the following year when she addressed a meeting of the Star  Council, at Eerde Castle in Ommen. 
贝赞特夫人现在要求拉贾接管明星社的所有工作，如果尼提亚还活着，他就应该做这些工作。在现实中，尼提亚可能没有足够的力量来承担明星社的重担。当时没有人预见到克里希纳将切断他与神智学会的关系，需要他自己的独立组织来资助并使他持续不断地在世界各地进行演讲和会议成为可能。拉贾在这项工作上很早就表现出了天赋。利德比特第一次选择年轻的拉贾作为他的一个特殊学生时就看到了这一点，贝桑特夫人多年来一直很清楚这一点。第二年，当她在欧门的厄尔德城堡召开的明星社理事会会议上发言时，她明确重申了她对拉贾能力的信心。

    It is I think, a very fortunate thing for this Organisation, that you have not only my son Krishnaji, but one whom I have known from quite his youth, Rajagopal, who adds to a very brilliant literary ability, I am glad to find, very considerable business faculty, a quality essential in work of this kind. 
    I believe you have two very fine officers to help you on each side of the work, and I know you will always have the blessing of the Great Teachers of the world.4 

    “我认为，这是本组织非常幸运的一件事，不仅是我的儿子克里希那吉，还有一个我早已认识的人。他年轻的时候，拉贾戈帕尔，他有非常出色的文学才能。我很高兴地发现，非常重要的商业才能是一种必不可少的品质。在这类工作中。“
    ”我相信你们两边都有两位非常优秀的警官来帮助你们的工作，我知道你将永远拥有的祝福，世界上最伟大的老师”

    Much later Krishna would disregard these words, which were the  very core of Raja's motive for taking on what would be his life work  and for his devotion to it. Krishna would inaccurately claim that he  had asked Raja to help him. 
很久以后，克里希纳就不理会这些话了，而这些话正是拉贾从事他一生的工作并献身于此的核心动机。克里希纳会错误地声称他曾请求拉贾帮助他。

    By May all of India is shrouded in insufferable heat and Rosalind, still  suffering from a recurrence of urticaria, was relieved to board ship  for England. Mrs Besant had been given a stateroom with private  bath which she asked Rosalind to share with her. She would awaken  Rosalind early every morning after first drawing her a bath and then  urge her out so she could work in privacy on her manuscript, India:  Bond or Free? Rosalind kept her face covered with a scarf to hide the  blemishes made by urticaria, which led to a rumour among the European  passengers that those dark young men had some nefarious hold over her.  To avoid further gossip she had to show her face and declare that she  was a free and willing passenger in the company of Mrs Besant. 
到了5月，整个印度都笼罩在难以忍受的高温中，罗莎琳德仍然饱受荨麻疹复发的折磨，她终于放心地登上了前往英国的船。贝赞特夫人得到了一间带私人浴室的房间，她让罗莎琳德和她一起住。每天清晨，她先给罗莎琳德洗完澡，然后把她叫醒，然后催促她出去，这样她就可以私下写她的手稿《印度:奴役还是自由?》罗莎琳德用围巾遮住脸，以掩盖荨麻疹造成的斑点，这在欧洲乘客中引起了谣言，说那些黑皮肤的年轻人对她有什么邪恶的控制。为了避免更多的流言蜚语，她不得不露面，宣布她是贝赞特夫人陪伴下的自由和自愿的乘客。

    On their arrival in England, Mrs Besant wanted Rosalind to prepare  to go to Cambridge to take a degree in political science. Rosalind was  somewhat dismayed at the idea, but agreed to study French and prepare  for the other necessary entrance requirements. She was staying with  Miss Dodge, who took an immediate liking to her and arranged for  her to be tutored by Miss Ellison, the headmistress ofa girls' school. 
抵达英国后，贝赞特夫人想让罗莎琳德准备去剑桥大学攻读政治学学位。罗莎琳德对这个想法有些失望，但还是同意学习法语，并为其他必要的入学要求做准备。她和道奇小姐住在一起，道奇小姐立刻就喜欢上了她，并安排她由一所女子学校的女校长埃里森小姐辅导。

    One day Miss Ellison invited Rosalind to bring Raja for tea and told  Rosalind afterwards that she would get quite as good an education  by marrying him and giving up Cambridge. One can hope that they  were both discreet enough at the time not to pass on this comment to  Miss Dodge or Mrs Besant, although the day would come when the  latter would welcome their engagement for other reasons. In any case,  Rosalind was not ready for such a commitment, fond though she was  of Raja. 
一天，埃里森小姐邀请罗莎琳德带拉贾去喝茶，然后告诉罗莎琳德，如果她放弃剑桥大学，嫁给拉贾，也能得到同样好的教育。我们可以希望，他们当时都足够谨慎，没有把这句话告诉道奇小姐或贝赞特夫人，尽管总有一天，后者会因为其他原因欢迎他们订婚。无论如何，罗莎琳德还没有准备好接受这样的承诺，尽管她很喜欢拉贾。

    When he returned to England that May, Raja had to face the task  of organizing the Star Camp in Ommen. Although the primitive  arrangements of the previous year were to be much improved, all  camp members were now asked to do a share of the work, cleaning  their own rooms and washing up dishes. Being accountable for the  running of a large camp naturally subjected Raja to criticism from  some camp members who were not accustomed to doing their own  work or taking such orders. They compared Raja's efficacious manner  with the gentle and undemanding Krishna. 
当年5月回到英国后，拉贾不得不面对组织欧门明星社营地的任务。虽然前一年的原始安排有了很大的改善，但现在营地的所有成员都被要求做一份工作，打扫自己的房间和洗盘子。负责一个大型营地的运作自然使拉贾受到一些营地成员的批评，他们不习惯做自己的工作或接受这样的命令。他们将拉贾的有效率的方式与温和而不苛求的克里希纳相比较。

    This was the beginning of a lifelong role for Raja: he would be the  whipping boy for any dissatisfaction that centred on Krishna's activities.  [t was not conceivable to most people that Krishna could be anything less  than perfect; yet someone had to be blamed for the muddles that quite  often occurred because of his actions. A few years later an enthusiastic  follower told Krishna he would like to give money for a golf course at  Ommen apd Krishna said, *?°What a good idea! Go and talk to Rajagopal.'  It might have occurred to Krishna that he himself should have consulted  Raja before giving any opinion to the eager donor. Raja greeted the idea  with a forthright lack of enthusiasm, wondering what possible purpose a  golf course could have for a few weeks of camp. The problems it would  create were obvious, but the man went off saying that Raja was a most  unpleasant fellow.> 
这是拉贾一生角色的开始:他将成为任何以克里希纳活动为中心的不满的替罪羊。对大多数人来说，克里希纳的不完美是不可想象的；然而，由于他的行为而经常出现的混乱局面，总得有人受到指责。几年后，一位热心的追随者告诉克里希纳，他愿意捐钱在欧门建一个高尔夫球场，克里希纳说：“多好的主意！去和拉贾戈帕尔谈谈”。克里希纳也许会想到，在向这位热心的捐赠者发表意见之前，他自己应该先征求拉贾的意见。拉贾对这个想法态度冷淡，不知道高尔夫球场对这几个星期的营地有什么意义。这样做带来的问题是显而易见的，但那个人离开时说拉贾是一个非常令人讨厌的家伙。

    Meanwhile Mrs Besant, disturbed by the dissensions within the soci- ety, wrote to Leadbeater from London on 17 June 1926 a compellingly  frank and decisive statement of her moral and spiritual position in the  face of the innuendo and gossip that had prevailed at Adyar. 
与此同时，贝赞特夫人被社会内部的纷争所困扰，于1926年6月17日从伦敦写信给利德比特，对她在阿迪亚盛行的含沙射语和流言蜚语所持的道德和精神立场进行了令人信服的坦率和果断的陈述。

    She reaffirmed the tie between herself and Leadbeater, precluding any misunderstanding. Evidently she had not been aware of the extent of  gossip at Adyar during the Jubilee which she now held responsible  for preventing what should have happened, namely the ?(r)coming'.  Jinarajadasa had written to her that Krishna did not believe her words  at Ommen concerning the ?(r)coming'. Mrs Besant had first confronted  Krishna after their arrival in London and he had explained his confusion  over Leadbeater's evident disbelief and the differences he perceived  between his two protectors. Above all, Krishna had been distressed  by the gossip and assigning of labels. Avoiding labels would be a  central theme in his talks as would a distrust of experiences ⌒ meaning  occult ones. 
她重申了她和利德比特之间的关系，排除了任何误解。显然，她没有意识到在禧年期间，阿迪亚流言蜚语的程度，她现在负责阻止应该发生的事情，即“降临”。吉那拉贾达萨曾写信给她，说克里希纳不相信她在欧门所说的“降临”。抵达伦敦后，贝桑特夫人第一次见到了克里希纳，他解释了他对利德比特明显不相信的困惑，以及他在两个保护者之间感受到的差异。最重要的是，克里希纳对流言蜚语和给人贴标签感到苦恼。避免给自己贴上标签是他演讲的中心主题，同时他也不相信那些神秘的经历。

    Mrs Besant, however, remained steadfast in her own convictions that  her words had come directly from the King (of the Occult Hierarchy)  and that therefore there were only three possibilities if this were doubted:  first, that she was lying; second, that she was deluded; and, third, that  she was as sure of her directions as ever. If she was wrong about this,  everything she had received would come under question. She would  have misled many people who had trusted her and would feel compelled  to retire from public life. She totally rejected this last possibility, saying  that she would continue to follow any directions she might receive, but  that all this did not affect her relationship with Krishna, and she did  not mind being doubted. She had told Krishna that it might be best  if she did not go to Ommen that year, but he insisted that she must.  She replied that then he must risk what she might say. 
然而，贝赞特夫人仍然坚信她的话直接来自(神秘教的)国王，因此，如果这一点受到怀疑，只有三种可能:第一，她在撒谎;第二，她被骗了;第三，她对自己的方向一如既往地有把握。如果她错了，她所得到的一切都将受到质疑。她会误导许多信任她的人，并感到被迫退出公共生活。她完全拒绝了这最后一种可能性，说她将继续听从她可能得到的任何指示，但这一切并不影响她与克里希纳的关系，她不介意被怀疑。她曾告诉克里希纳，那一年她最好不要去欧门，但他坚持要她去。她回答说，那么他就得冒她可能说的话的风险。

    Without reproach she commented that she had tried to speak of these  matters with Leadbeater at Adyar but he had always been too busy with  his books. While she had usually deferred to him on occult matters and  admitted his superiority in that domain, she did not doubt her own  experience when it came directly from the great ones. If Leadbeater  had not always been able to confirm this, it was perhaps that some  directions had not come his way. She urged him to recognize that  this was an exceptional time when courage was more important than  caution, and she reaffirmed her faith in the ?(r)coming'. None of them  should stand in the way of that great work. She begged him once  more not to allow factions to divide and confuse the young. 
她毫无责备地说，她在阿迪亚曾试图和利德比特谈过这些事，但他总是忙于读书。虽然她通常在神秘的事情上听从他的意见，承认他在这方面的优越性，但当她自己的经验直接来自大人物时，她并不怀疑。如果利德比特不是总能证实这一点，那也许是因为他没有得到一些指示。她敦促他认识到，这是一个特殊的时刻，勇气比谨慎更重要，她重申了她对未来的信心。他们都不应该妨碍这项伟大的工作。她再次恳求他不要让派系分裂和混淆年轻人。

    The letter was a striking revelation of Mrs Besant's courage, integrity  and loyalty; and, above all, of her capacity for deep and abiding love.  These qualities would not be diminished, even by the baffling shocks she would soon receive from Krishna. 
    When the 1926 Ommen Camp started on 23 July, it was ready to accommodate over two thousand people from all over the world. Almost everyone moved into the tented grounds in the pine woods a mile away  from the castle. Krishna, Raja and Rosalind stayed in Eerde Castle.  Krishna was having occasional very mild recurrences of the ?(r)process',  which he now wanted Rosalind to mother him through. As before in  Ojai, he clung to her like a small child and with haracteristic naivet¨| she  failed to find in his touch anything beyond the need to be mothered. 
这封信惊人地揭示了贝赞特夫人的勇气和正直和忠诚;最重要的是，她拥有深厚而持久的爱。这些品质即使受到令人困惑的冲击也不会减弱，她很快就会从克里希纳那里得到。
当1926年7月23日欧门营地开始时，它已经准备好了可容纳来自世界各地的两千多人。几乎大家都搬到离城堡一英里远的松林里搭起了帐篷。克里希纳、拉贾和罗莎琳德住在埃尔德城堡。克里希纳偶尔会有非常轻微的“过程”复发，他现在希望罗莎琳德像母亲一样帮助他度过这个过程。像以前在奥海一样，他像一个小孩子一样紧紧地搂着她，带着他特有的天真，她在他的触摸中除了需要母爱之外，找不到任何别的东西。

    The fire-lighting ceremony to the God Agni was performed by  Krishna and Mrs Besant when she arrived just in time for the camp  opening. Krishna gave, as yet, no sign of the iconoclasm that was to  come. But this camp and the gathering preceding it at Eerde Castle in  early July saw a basic change in Krishna's message. There was no more  reference to ?(r)the Path of Discipleship'. Instead he urged that each find his  own path and law and listen to his own voice. In a series of talks, given  to a few invited persons before the large camp opened, he spoke of the  kingdom of happiness which is to be found within each individual. 

克里希纳和贝赞特夫人为阿格尼神举行了点火仪式，贝赞特夫人及时赶到营地开幕。到目前为止，克里希纳还没有给出即将到来的偶像破坏的迹象。但是，这次露营和7月初在埃尔德城堡举行的集会见证了克里希纳话语的基本变化。再也没有提到“门徒之路”了。相反，他敦促每个人找到自己的正道和法，倾听自己的声音。在大型营地开营前，他向几位受邀人士发表了一系列演讲，谈到了每个人内心都能找到的幸福王国。

    Most of the crowd had no inkling where this new turn would lead.  Some felt the difference, although they still saw it as a fulfilment of the  prophecy that the Lord had indeed really come. 
人群中的大多数人都不知道这一新的转折会把他们引向何方。有些人感到了不同，尽管他们仍然认为这是预言的实现，主真的来了。

    At the opening camp-fire talk, attended by two thousand people,  many were certain that the Lord Maitreya was speaking through  Krishna. Others were less sure. James Wedgwood (a Liberal Catholic  Bishop and close friend of Leadbeater) whispered in Mrs Besant's ear  words so alarming to her that she asked Raja to drive her and Krishna  back to the castle the moment the meeting broke up. Raja, some years  later, wrote an account of that
在有两千人参加的开幕篝火演讲上，许多人确信弥勒主是通过克里希纳说话的。其他人则不太确定。詹姆斯・韦奇伍德(詹姆斯・韦奇伍德是一位天主教自由派主教，也是利德比特的密友)在贝桑特夫人耳边悄悄说了几句令她惊恐的话，于是她要求拉贾在会议一结束就开车送她和克里希纳回城堡。几年后，拉贾写下了那件事：

” extraordinary evening when A.B. told Krishnaji in his room at the  Castle that it was a great black magician whom she knew well who  had spoken through him. Of course I knew, though it was A.B. who  said this to Krishnaji, it was really Wedgwood who claimed he saw it.  I remember well his whispering something to Amma towards the end  of the talk. Wedgwood was sitting next to her and I was sitting next  to Wedgwood. As soon as the talk was over she had me bring the  car; and quickly ushering Krishnaji into it, she and I drove straight to  the Castle with him. She then came to Krishnaji's room. 1 was with  him then and I went out because I saw she wanted to speak to him. I  was waiting outside when, in just a few minutes, she came out, and  she put her hands on my shoulders and said, ?(r)My dear, everything  will be all right, do not worry.?± I was puzzled and thought that she  meant that Krishnaji had been somewhat physically shaken, for he  certainly was in a daze. [ then said goodnight to her and went back to Krishnaji, who was sitting on his bed looking much amazed. He  then told me what Amma had told him about the powerful black  magician. Krishnaji said that he had told Amma that if she really  believed that, he should not talk anymore at all, at which she was  very disturbed and distressed.. “

”不寻常的夜晚，当时贝赞特夫人在城堡的房间里告诉克里希那吉，她很熟悉的一位伟大的黑魔法师通过他说话。我当然知道，虽然这是贝赞特夫人对克里希那吉说的，但实际上是韦奇伍德声称他看到了这一切。我清楚地记得他在谈话快结束时对妈妈说了些什么。韦奇伍德坐在她旁边，我坐在韦奇伍德旁边。谈话一结束，她就让我把车开过来。然后迅速地把克里希那吉领进去，我和她和他一起直奔城堡。然后她来到克里希那吉的房间。我当时和他在一起，我出去是因为我看到她想和他说话。我在外面等着，几分钟后，她出来了，她把手放在我的肩膀上说:“亲爱的，一切都会好的，别担心。”我很困惑，以为她的意思是克里希那吉的身体受到了某种程度的震动，因为他肯定是在发呆。然后向她道了晚安，回到克里希那吉身边，他正坐在床上，看起来非常惊讶。然后他告诉了我，阿玛告诉他的关于强大的黑魔法师的事。克里希那吉说，他曾告诉阿玛，如果她真的相信这一点，他就不应该再说话了，这让她非常不安和痛苦。“

    Wedgwood would raise the black magician whenever he found  Krishna's words heretical, but Mrs Besant never again suggested  that he was in the hands of the dark forces. Nevertheless, for her,  the question of Krishna's consciousness was far from resolved. 
每当韦奇伍德发现克里希纳的话是异端邪说时，他就会把黑魔法师举起来，但贝赞特夫人再也没有暗示他在黑暗势力的手中。然而，对她来说，克里希纳知觉的问题远未解决。
