10  Bypassing the Masters 绕过大师
 
    While Krishna's new direction was unsettling to some and exciting  to others, Mrs Besant in her old age and with her mind very taken  up with the movement for Indian Home Rule and the troubles she  correctly foresaw for India's future, was more and more confused by  him. She was also, as we have learned from her letter of 17 June 1926  to Leadbeater, trying her utmost to reconcile the factions in the society  and still allow Krishna to go his own way. At the end of that summer  she was sufficiently upset by the differing factions around her to consider  resigning as President of the society, but she decided instead to make an  unscheduled visit to America. For years Krishna and Nitya had wanted  to show her ?(r)their' Ojai valley. Perhaps she sensed that it would now be  sad for Krishna to return to the place where they had last been together  and where Nitya had died. 
虽然克里希纳的新方向让一些人感到不安，也让另一些人感到兴奋，但贝赞特夫人年事已高，一心想着印度地方自治运动，以及她正确预见到的印度未来的麻烦，却越来越被他搞糊涂了。正如我们从她1926年6月17日给Leadbeater的信中了解到的那样，她也在尽最大努力调和社会中的派系，仍然允许克里希纳走自己的路。那年夏天结束时，她对周围不同的派系感到非常不安，考虑辞去协会主席的职务，但她决定对美国进行一次临时访问。多年来，克里希纳和妮提亚一直想让她看看他们的“奥哈伊山谷”。也许她感觉到，现在如果克里希纳回到他们最后一起待过的地方，回到妮提亚死去的地方，会很难过。

    Among the passengers on the SS Majestic, bound for New York, was  a group of actors, including Lillian Gish, John Barrymore and members  of the New York Theater Guild, who exhibited polite curiosity about  the strikingly handsome young ?(r)messiah'. There would always be an  interest in Krishna among the Hollywood film set. This casual shipboard  encounter would lead to occasional further meetings. Some years later  John Barrymore, on a visit to Arya Vihara, went so far as to suggest  that Krishna would make a good film actor portraying the life of  Buddha. This remark, tossed out as it happened when Barrymore was  in his cups, seems to have made a surprising impression on Krishna.  He later claimed he had been offered the part at five thousand dollars  a week and knew he could always have made a living that way if he  had to. 
在这艘开往纽约的雄伟号游轮上，有一群演员，包括莉莲・吉什、约翰・巴里摩尔和纽约戏剧协会的成员，他们对这位年轻英俊的“弥赛亚”表现出礼貌的好奇。好莱坞电影界总是对克里希纳感兴趣。这次在船上的偶然相遇后来又导致了后来的偶遇。几年后，约翰・巴里摩尔(John Barrymore)在访问艾莉亚・维哈拉(Arya Vihara)时，甚至建议克里希纳(Krishna)可以成为一个很好的电影演员，描绘佛陀的生活。这句话是在白瑞摩喝醉的时候说出来的，似乎给克里希纳留下了令人惊讶的印象。他后来声称，他得到的是每周5000美元的片酬，而且他知道，如果有必要，他总是可以这样谋生的。

    In spite of the glamorous competition for limelight on board, Mrs  Besant and her party were greeted with a barrage of innuendoes from  the press on their arrival in New York. Gentlemen Prefer Blondes was  currently running with great success on Broadway and this added  colourful spice to the press stories in which Rosalind was romantically  linked with Krishna as the mysterious blonde in his retinue. Mrs Besant  suspected that an old adversary in the early days of the Theosophical  Society, Mme Tingley, might have started the rumours. 
尽管在飞机上有许多引人注目的竞争，贝赞特夫人和她的一行人在抵达纽约时还是受到了媒体的一连串影射。《绅士爱美人》目前在百老汇取得了巨大的成功，这给媒体的故事增添了色彩，在这些故事中，罗莎琳德与克里希纳作为他的随从中的神秘金发女郎浪漫地联系在一起。贝赞特夫人怀疑是她在神智学会成立之初的老对手廷利夫人散布了这些谣言。

    At this point, no doubt to Mrs Besant's relief, Rosalind and Raja  decided to announce their engagement. Raja had convinced Rosalind of  his love for her and she had felt a deep affection for him even while Nitya  was alive, but she still had certain reservations about marrying him.  His increasingly serious nature and sometimes depressed temperament  worried her, as did his habit of working all day and most of the night  in his total commitment to ?(r)the Work'. But that summer, walking on  Wimbledon Common, he had eloquently assured her that he would  change if she married him. 
此时，罗莎琳德和拉贾决定宣布订婚，这无疑让贝赞特夫人松了一口气。拉贾让罗莎琳德相信他爱她，甚至在妮提亚还活着的时候，她就对他有一种深深的感情，但她对嫁给他还是有些保留意见。他越来越严肃的性格和有时沮丧的气质使她担心，就像他整天整夜工作的习惯一样，他把全部精力都投入到“工作”中去了。但那年夏天，在温布尔登公园散步时，他曾雄辩地向她保证，如果她嫁给他，他会改变的。

    Krishna kept himself aloof from the large step his two close friends  were about to take. His manner toward them both was cool and  withdrawn, but he offered no overt indication of his opinion at that  time, quite unlike his attitude towards others who had married or  announced engagements and received the full blast of his horror. When  he heard his old friend Marcelle de Manziarly was engaged he had  responded that she was a fool and might just as well commit suicide. 
克里希纳对他的两个亲密的朋友即将迈出的一大步保持着远离。他对她们俩的态度冷淡而孤僻，但他当时并没有公开表明自己的看法，这与他对待那些结婚或宣布订婚的人的态度完全不同，他们受到了他的恐惧的猛烈袭击。当他听说他的老朋友马塞勒・德・曼齐亚利订婚时，他回答说她是个傻瓜，还不如自杀。

    Perhaps he looked on Raja and Rosalind's engagement as a matter of  expediency, done for his sake, to stop the rumours and not something  of their own choosing. Or perhaps he did not take it seriously. 
也许他把拉贾和罗莎琳德的订婚看作是权宜之计，是为了他自己，为了平息谣言，而不是他们自己的选择。或许他没有把这当回事。

    When Mrs Besant heard that Orientals could not become American  citizens and that American women who married Orientals would lose  their citizenship, she was so outraged that she asked them to call off  their engagement, which they did. It is ironical that England should  have been less bigoted in this respect. (It was not until after the Second  World War that Raja obtained US citizenship.) 
当贝赞特夫人听说东方人不能成为美国公民，而与东方人结婚的美国妇女将失去美国公民身份时，她非常愤怒，要求他们取消订婚，他们照做了。具有讽刺意味的是，英国在这方面不应该那么固执。(直到第二次世界大战后，拉贾才获得美国公民身份。)

    For Krishna, who had been away from Ojai for nearly a year, their  arrival was full of sad nostalgia. Arya Vihara was the place where he and  Nitya had been most happy together and the place they had considered  their home. He felt his brother's presence strongly, especially in the  front bedroom where Nitya had died. 
对于离开欧康将近一年的克里希纳来说，他们的到来充满了悲伤的怀旧。艾莉亚维哈拉是他和妮提娅在一起最快乐的地方，也是他们把自己当成家的地方。他强烈地感觉到哥哥的存在，尤其是在妮提娅死去的前卧室里。

    Life in California was austere. Arya Vihara still sparsely furnished  with only fireplaces for warmth. Krishna slept up in Pine Cottage,  Mrs Besant, Raja and Rosalind in the large house, which Rosalind ran  with ease after her year in Sydney. 
加州的生活很艰苦。Arya Vihara仍然只有壁炉取暖。克里希纳睡在松树小屋里，贝赞特太太、拉贾和罗莎琳德睡在大房子里，罗莎琳德在悉尼呆了一年之后，住得很轻松。

    One evening after dinner they were all assembled in the living-room  at Arya Vihara. Krishna was leaning against the fireplace and started to  explain to Mrs Besant how his consciousness had now merged with the  ?(r)beloved', something more than the Lord Maitreya, in fact possibly the  Buddha. Raja remembers the distress on Mrs Besant's face as she tried to comprehend this new concept which was not at all part of the plan  intricately laid out to her and Leadbeater by the Masters and in which  she so fervently believed. 
一天晚饭后，他们都聚集在艾莉亚维哈拉的客厅里。克里希纳靠在壁炉上，开始向贝赞特太太解释，他的意识现在是如何与“至爱”融合在一起的，而不仅仅是弥勒菩萨，实际上可能是佛陀。拉贾记得贝桑特夫人脸上的痛苦，她试图理解这个新概念，而这个新概念根本不是大师们向她和利德比特错综复杂地提出的计划的一部分，而她却如此热切地相信这个计划。

    Afterwards, walking with Krishna back to Pine Cottage as he did  every evening, Raja too felt very disturbed by the discussion he had  just witnessed. He had accepted Mrs Besant's and Leadbeater's view  of Krishna as a vehicle for the Lord Maitreya, but not as a merged  consciousness. This distinction was quite naturally of great importance  to Krishna. Being ?(r)one flame' with the Lord is preferable to being merely  an available vehicle, even if the result appeared to be the same to his  enraptured audiences. 
之后，像每天晚上一样，和奎师那一起走回松树小屋，拉贾也为刚才目睹的讨论感到非常不安。他接受了贝赞特夫人和利德比特夫人的观点，认为奎师那是弥勒神的载体，而不是融合的意识。这种区别对奎师那来说自然是非常重要的。与主同有一团火焰，总比只作一个可用的工具要好，即使对他的狂热的听众来说，结果似乎是一样的。

    Worried as she was by this change in Krishna's perception, Mrs  Besant concluded that she would have to accept whatever he said.  She had really put herself in this position by her unfailing outward  loyalty to him, though between her and Leadbeater there had been  moments of grave doubts which tended to be overruled by her love  for Krishna. This love was soon further demonstrated, for when his  plans to go to India with her in November had to be cancelled due  to a painful swelling in his breast, resulting in the doctor's firm orders  that he must stay in Ojai, she decided to remain there with him for  the winter. 
尽管对克里希纳看法的变化感到担忧，贝赞特夫人还是得出结论，无论他说什么，她都必须接受。她把自己置于这样的境地，实际上是由于她表面上对他始终不渝的忠诚，虽然在她和利德比特之间曾有过严重的怀疑，但这些怀疑往往被她对克里希纳的爱所压倒。这种爱很快就得到了进一步的体现，因为当他11月和她一起去印度的计划因乳房肿胀而不得不取消，导致医生坚定地命令他必须留在奥康时，她决定在那里和他一起过冬。

    She never fully resigned herself to his ?(r)blending of consciousness'  theory. But at the same time, she gave him her unflinching public  support and did her utmost to reconcile the two views. 

她从未完全听命于他的意识融合理论。但与此同时，她毫不退缩地公开支持他，并尽最大努力调和两种观点。

    [she reviewed] the development of her and Leadbeater's original  theory of the taking over of a human body by the Teacher, and  [told] how in London recently she had modified this theory in  accordance with modern psychology to allow for ?(r)dual personality.  and had'now come to think that there would not be ?(r)a going out and  a coming in . . . but a thing far more inspiring . . . a blending of the  consciousness of the Christ with the consciousness of His Disciple',  a ?(r)taking of the manhood into God.?±? 
(她回顾了)她和Leadbeater关于导师接管人体的原始理论的发展，并(讲述了)她最近如何在伦敦根据现代心理学修改了这个理论，以允许双重人格。难道我现在就认为不会有一种进进出出的感觉吗?但有一件事更鼓舞人心……基督的意识与他的门徒的意识的混合，(或)将男子气概带入上帝。

    The state of Krishna's consciousness was not absorbing Mrs Besant's  entire interest that winter. She was also embarking on a serious real  estate venture. One day she had been taken to the upper valley to see  a tract of land, purchased the year before for the Order of the Star.  However, Krishna and Raja had found the rolling hills unsuitable for  a campsite. Besides there was no water. As Mrs Besant sat on the land  under the grove of eucalyptus trees she had a very strong ?(r)vision' or conviction that this would be the perfect centre for the future sixth  sub-root race. She and Leadbeater had for some years seen California as  a fertile area for this new generation with an advanced consciousness to  develop. It became of the utmost importance to her to appoint trustees  who would preserve the land for the right moment. When this moment  would come or what type of activity would manifest itself was left  sufficiently vague to allow for many possibilities. But she suggested  any number of potential uses ranging from agricultural enterprises  to schools and communities to film-making, all in the interests of  strengthening the forces of peace and the spiritual as well as physical  and intellectual progress of mankind. 
那个冬天，克里希纳的知觉状态并没有吸引贝赞特太太的全部兴趣。她还开始了一项严肃的房地产投资。有一天，她被带到山谷的上游去看一块土地，那是一年前为星星骑士团购买的。然而，克里希纳和拉贾发现起伏的山丘不适合露营。此外，没有水。当贝桑特夫人坐在桉树树林下的土地上时，她有一种强烈的愿景或信念，这将是未来第六次亚根比赛的完美中心。多年来，她和利德比特一直认为加州是新一代具有先进意识的人发展的沃土。对她来说，最重要的事情是任命受托人，让他们在适当的时候保护这片土地。这个时刻什么时候会到来，或者什么类型的活动会显现出来，这是足够模糊的，允许许多可能性。但她提出了从农业企业到学校、社区到电影制作的各种潜在用途，所有这些都有利于加强和平力量，促进人类精神、物质和智力的进步。

    She envisioned a natural link under the guidance of the Masters  between the work of the world teacher and the community that would  eventually flourish in Happy Valley. But each would be separate in  entity and location. She and Krishna agreed that she would give the  Order of the Star a cheque for the upper land, which would cover  whatever money had already been raised for its purchase. The Order  of the Star could then acquire a more suitable site for the Star camps  that had been found at the other end of the valley. Mrs Besant named  the land Happy Valley as she said it reminded her of a beautiful valley  in the Himalayas. She also had in mind that state of being that Krishna  had called the Kingdom of Happiness. 
她设想在大师们的指导下，世界教师的工作与最终将在欢乐谷蓬勃发展的社区之间建立自然联系。但每一个实体和位置都是分开的。她和克里希纳商定，她将给星星骑士团一张购买上面土地的支票，这笔钱将支付已经筹集到的购买土地的钱。星际骑士团可以在山谷的另一端找到一个更合适的营地。贝赞特夫人将这片土地命名为欢乐谷，因为她说这让她想起了喜马拉雅山上一个美丽的山谷。她也想到了被奎师那称为幸福王国的存在状态。

    Among the original trustees of Happy Valley, were Raja, Sara and  Robert Logan, an eminent Philadelphia couple, and Louis Zalk, a Duluth  businessman. No one, Mrs Besant least of all, could have foreseen that  two years later Krishna would sever his ties with all organizations, the  Masters and their plans for him. In his defection he would take with him  many of the subscribers who had pledged themselves to help pay off the  heavy mortgage on Happy Valley. Many other contributors would be hit  by the Great Depression. Thus it would fall primarily on the Logans and  Louis Zalk to keep afloat financially this beautiful but empty acreage.  Happy Valley would remain serenely undisturbed for the next twenty  years, waiting for Mrs Besant's vision to shape into reality. 
欢乐谷最初的受托人包括拉贾、萨拉和罗伯特・洛根，他们是费城著名的夫妇，还有德卢斯的商人路易斯・扎克。没有人，尤其是贝桑特夫人，能够预见到两年后克里希纳会切断与所有组织、大师和他们为他制定的计划的联系。他的叛逃将带走许多订户，这些订户曾承诺帮助他偿还对欢乐谷沉重的抵押贷款。许多其他贡献者将受到大萧条的打击。因此，维持这片美丽但空旷的土地的经济运转主要落在了洛根夫妇和路易斯・扎尔克身上。在接下来的二十年里，欢乐谷将保持平静，不受干扰，等待贝赞特夫人的愿景成为现实。

    There was to be another pre-camp gathering at Eerde Castle in July  1927, which Mrs Besant planned to attend after her round of European  lectures. At the last moment Krishna privately persuaded her not to  come and, as usual, she complied with his wishes although she was  puzzled. Krishna must have known then what he was going to say  at Eerde and known that it would have been more difficult for  him to say it in her presence. Possibly he wanted to spare her hurt,     but nothing could have hurt her more than the way he handled this  request. _ 
1927年7月，贝赞特夫人计划在她的欧洲讲座结束后，在埃尔德城堡举行另一次夏令营前的聚会。在最后一刻，奎师那私下劝她不要来，像往常一样，她顺从了他的意愿，尽管她感到困惑。奎师那当时一定知道他要在伊尔德说什么，也知道当着她的面说这些话比较困难。也许他是不想让她受伤害，但没有什么比他处理这个请求的方式更能伤害她了。＿

    Mrs Besant unexpectedly then asked Rosalind to stay with her in  London. Rosalind had become very close to her and did many small  personal things which Mrs Besant had come to find a comfort, such  as brushing her hair and driving her. In Ojai the previous winter Mrs  Besant had come to rely on Rosalind for night driving especially, saying  she felt safest with her at the wheel. But this change in plans was a terrible  disappointment for Rosalind, who had been looking forward to seeing  all her old friends. She had also come to look on Krishna and Raja as  her family and knew she would be desperately lonely without them.  Yet she would not have dreamed of arguing with Mrs Besant or even  of showing the least reluctance. Miss Dodge must have realized that for  a young woman of high spirits to be left in a household of elderly ladies  for the summer was not too exciting a prospect. She did everything she  could to make up for it, arranging theatre tickets and parties and escorts,  none of whom interested Rosalind. These occasions, in fact, gave her a  life-long distaste for English upper-class society and a distrust of wealth.  When Miss Dodge, who then, reportedly, had an income ofa million  dollars a year, wanted to adopt her, Rosalind declined, not only out  of loyalty to her own mother but because she had an innate fear of  so much wealth. Miss Dodge nevertheless showed her great fondness  for Rosalind by setting up for her, as she had for Krishna and Raja, a  lifetime trust. 
贝赞特夫人出人意料地邀请罗莎琳德和她一起留在伦敦。罗莎琳德和她非常亲近，做了很多贝赞特太太觉得很舒服的私事，比如给她梳头，开车送她。去年冬天在欧康，贝赞特太太晚上开车特别依赖罗莎琳德，她说她觉得有罗莎琳德开车最安全。但是计划的改变让罗莎琳德非常失望，她一直盼望着见到她所有的老朋友。她也把克里希纳和拉贾视为自己的家人，知道没有他们她会非常孤独。然而，她做梦也不会想到和贝赞特太太争论，甚至不会表现出丝毫的不情愿。道奇小姐一定意识到，对于一个兴致勃勃的年轻女子来说，被留在老妇人的家里度夏并不是一件令人兴奋的事。她尽其所能来弥补这一点，安排剧院门票、派对和伴游，罗莎琳德对这些都不感兴趣。事实上，这些经历使她对英国上流社会产生了终生的厌恶和对财富的不信任。据报道，当时道奇小姐的年收入有一百万美元，她想收养罗莎琳德，但罗莎琳德拒绝了，这不仅是出于对母亲的忠诚，也是因为她对这么多财富有一种天生的恐惧。然而，道奇小姐对罗莎琳德表现出了极大的喜爱，她为她设立了终身信托，就像她对克里希纳和拉贾那样。

    While Rosalind was convinced that Mrs Besant wanted her presence  for comfort, it is more probable that as the rumours linking Krishna  romantically with Rosalind were again in the air, now that her engage- ment with Raja had been broken, Mrs Besant had decided to keep  them apart for the summer. When she finally went to Holland she  left Rosalind behind in London. ?(r)Even among Theosophists . . . there  were strong rumours that Krishna was actually in love at the time  and that Mrs Besant had to exert heavy pressure to remind him  of his duty as a celibate . . . the girl named was . . . Rosalind  Williams.. 
虽然罗莎琳德确信贝赞特夫人想让她在身边安慰自己，但更有可能的是，由于克里希纳与罗莎琳德的恋情再次传开，而她与拉贾的婚约已经破裂，贝赞特夫人决定让他们在夏天分开。她最后去了荷兰，把罗莎琳德留在了伦敦。?(r)即使在神智学者中…有强烈的谣言说，克里希纳当时实际上正在恋爱，贝赞特夫人不得不施加巨大的压力，提醒他作为一个独身者的责任……那个女孩的名字是……罗莎琳德・威廉姆斯。

    Mrs Besant had another forewarning of Krishna's increasingly inde- pendent thinking. On a quick trip to Paris, where he spoke to the  Esoteric Society, he referred to the Masters as ?(r)mere incidents'. 
贝赞特夫人对克里希纳日益独立的思想提出了另一个警告。在一次去巴黎的快速旅行中，他在那里与神秘学会交谈，他把大师们称为“纯粹的事件”。

    Meanwhile in Ommen Raja and Lady Emily were busy changing  the name of the Herald to the Star Review (since the world teacher was  now officially here, Herald was no longer an appropriate name), and  with Krishna's full approval, they drafted new objectives: 
    1 To draw together all those who believe in the presence in the 
    world of the World Teacher. 
    2 To work with him for the establishment of His ideals. The Order 
    has no dogmas, creeds, or systems of belief. Its inspiration is the 
    Teacher, its purpose to embody His universal life. 
与此同时，在奥曼，拉贾和埃米莉夫人正忙着把《先驱报》的名字改为《星评》(因为世界教师现在正式来到这里，《先驱报》不再是一个合适的名字)，在克里希纳的完全同意下，他们起草了新的目标:
把所有相信上帝存在的人聚集在一起
世界教师的世界。
与他一起工作，以建立他的理想。订单
没有教条、信条或信仰体系。它的灵感来自
老师，它的目的是体现他的普遍生活。

    Both George Arundale and Jinarajadasa were in hearty disagreement  with the idea of the merging of Krishna's consciousness with that of  the world teacher. This was to place Krishna, who was in their opinion  still a disciple, too close to the Lord. This controversy would never be  effectively resolved. While under Krishna's sway, Jinarajadasa might  appear to concede. But he would later revert to his own opinion. His  undying love for Krishna in spite of this very great difference between  them placed him in a difficult position. He saw in Krishna's view  the destruction of the whole Theosophical plan of the brotherhood,  the Masters and ?(r)the Path', which he now felt Krishna was trying  to bypass. 
乔治・阿伦代尔和吉那拉贾达萨都强烈反对奎师那的意识与世界导师的意识融合的观点。这是为了把在他们看来仍然是门徒的奎师那放在离主太近的地方。这一争议永远不会得到有效解决。在奎师那的影响下，吉那拉贾达萨可能会让步。但他后来又恢复了自己的观点。尽管他们之间存在着巨大的差异，但他对奎师那永恒的爱使他陷入了困境。他在奎师那的观点中看到了整个通神学计划的毁灭，他现在觉得奎师那正在试图绕过这个计划。

    But Krishna was not deterred by any of these opinions. A few days  before Camp was to open he addressed the host representatives of  forty countries. He maintained that his consciousness was merged with  his beloved, by which he meant all of creation. He went further in  recommending that his listeners give their attention only to the truth,  not to outer forms or authorities. He did not deny that he was the world  teacher, only that he had ever said so. Nevertheless, in his reiteration  of being one with his beloved the audience was certainly led to believe  that he had attained a very lofty level and that it was his desire to help  others to the same attainment. 
但克里希纳并没有被这些观点吓倒。在夏令营开幕的前几天，他向来自40个国家的东道主代表发表了讲话。他坚持认为他的意识与他的爱人融合在一起，他指的是所有的创造物。他进一步建议他的听众只把注意力放在真理上，而不是外在的形式或权威。他不否认自己是世界上最好的老师，只是他曾经这样说过。然而，当他一再重申与他心爱的人合而为一时，听众肯定会相信他已经达到了一个非常崇高的境界，并且他希望帮助别人达到同样的境界。

    During Mrs Besant's stay there were no evident divisive incidents.  As soon as she left, however, Krishna spoke to a special Service Camp  session in which he went even further; so far, in fact, that no printed  record remains, leading some to speculate that it was later suppressed  because of Mrs Besant's disapproval. But several witnesses clearly  remember that he claimed he had never read a Theosophical book  and could not understand Theosophical jargon nor had any of the  Theosophical lectures convinced him of their knowledge of the truth. If  this were true, one wonders how Krishnajustified keeping these attitudes  from his devoted Theosophical protectors for the past fifteen years. 
在贝赞特夫人逗留期间，没有发生明显的分裂事件。然而，她一离开，克里希纳就在一个特别的服务营会议上发言，他甚至走得更远;事实上，到目前为止，没有留下任何印刷记录，导致一些人猜测，由于贝赞特夫人的反对，它后来被压制了。但几位目击者清楚地记得，他声称自己从未读过一本神智学的书，也听不懂神智学的术语，也没有任何神智学的讲座让他相信他们对真理的了解。如果这是真的，那么克里希纳在过去的15年里如何证明对他忠实的通神学保护者保持这些态度是正当的呢?

    The effect of this statement on Mrs Besant was powerful. Back  in London Rosalind remembers a cablegram arriving. She saw Mrs  Besant's face blanch as she read it and then the suddenly old woman  withdrew to her room and did not emerge for three days, refusing to eat. Rosalind had never seen her ill, indeed Mrs Besant's reputation  for incredible physical stamina was legendary. 
这句话对贝赞特夫人产生了巨大的影响。回到伦敦后，罗莎琳德记得收到一封电报。她看到贝赞特太太读到这封信时脸色发白，然后这位突然变老的女人就回了自己的房间，三天没出来，拒绝吃饭。罗莎琳德从未见过贝赞特夫人生病，事实上，贝赞特夫人令人难以置信的体力是出了名的。

    Mrs Besant knew that many Theosophists were as badly shaken as  she was and she wondered if Krishna's present spirit was destructive.  This view of the dichotomy of Krishna's consciousness, reinforced by  his own words and actions, would follow him for the rest of his life. 
贝赞特太太知道，许多神智学家和她一样受到了严重的震撼，她想知道奎师那现在的灵魂是否具有破坏性。这种奎师那意识二分法的观点，被他自己的言行所强化，将伴随他的余生。

    In London, Rosalind had become so noticeably lonely that Miss Dodge  urged her to telephone Raja in Ommen. His response to this commu- nication was to turn up the next day with a sprig of orange blossoms in  his hand. That romantic gesture dispelled any lingering doubts Rosalind  might have had. 
在伦敦，罗莎琳德变得非常孤独，道奇小姐催促她给奥曼的拉贾打电话。他对这个交流的回应是第二天拿着一枝橙花出现在我面前。这一浪漫的举动消除了罗莎琳德可能存在的任何挥之不去的疑虑。

    They talked their plans over with Mrs Besant, who said she wanted  to give away the bride and to have the wedding in London before her  return to India. She immediately went to her calendar and picked a date,  11 October, ten days after her own birthday. Neither the deep concern  she was wrestling with over Krishna, her busy lecture schedule, or all the  work involved with her plans to return to India, prevented Mrs Besant  from giving time and consideration to Rosalind's wedding. It was to  be a large affair, in St Mary's Liberal Catholic church, following a civil  ceremony a week earlier on 3 October 1927 at the Registrar's office. 
他们和贝赞特夫人讨论了他们的计划，贝赞特夫人说她想在回印度之前把新娘送出去，在伦敦举行婚礼。她立即翻开日历，选了一个日期，10月11日，也就是她自己生日的十天后。无论是她对克里希纳的深切担忧，还是她繁忙的演讲日程，或是她计划返回印度的所有工作，都没有阻止贝赞特夫人花时间和考虑罗莎琳德的婚礼。这将是一场盛大的仪式，在圣玛丽的自由天主教堂举行，一周前的1927年10月3日，在登记官办公室举行了民事仪式。

    Although he could easily have planned to, Krishna did not show  up for either of these occasions. He was in London for Mrs Besant's  eightieth brithday on 1 October, but claimed something important drew  him away to Paris; possibly his sittings for the bust being made of him  by the great French sculptor, Bourdelle. Perhaps he just abhorred the  idea of weddings, but Rosalind felt keenly his disapproval toward both  her and Raja. 
虽然他可以很容易地计划，克里希纳没有出现在这两个场合。10月1日，他在伦敦为贝赞特太太庆祝八十大寿，但声称有重要的事情把他吸引到巴黎来了。可能是伟大的法国雕刻家布尔代勒为他制作的半身像坐像。也许他只是讨厌婚礼，但罗莎琳德强烈地感觉到他对她和拉贾的不满。

    The arrangements for the wedding were completely out of Rosalind's  hands: the guest list, her bouquet, her white velvet gown. No loving  mother could have planned it all with more care. Mrs Besant asked the  chauffeur to circle for what seemed to Rosalind an cternity to allow the  traditional tardiness of the bride of five or ten minutes, while a very  nervous young groom waited at the altar. 
婚礼的安排完全不在罗莎琳德的掌控之中:宾客名单、花束、白色天鹅绒礼服。没有一位慈爱的母亲能如此细心地计划这一切。在罗莎琳德看来，贝桑特太太让司机绕着圈子转了一圈，以允许新娘按照惯例迟到五到十分钟，而一个非常紧张的年轻新郎则在圣坛上等着。

    What came next for the newlyweds was less a honeymoon than a  lecture tour which Raja was to give throughout Europe. Afterwards  he and Rosalind returned to Ojai and Arya Vihara, their home for the  next forty-five years. 
这对新婚夫妇接下来要做的与其说是度蜜月，不如说是拉贾要在欧洲各地做巡回演讲。之后，他和罗莎琳德回到了欧康和艾莉亚・维哈拉，这是他们接下来45年的家。

    Meanwhile Krishna returned to India, as planned, with Mrs Besant.  Here she did not allow her confusion to show itself to the public. She appeared at least partially to have accepted Krishna's view of himself,  for she granted that his consciousness had blended with a fragment of  the world teacher. While Krishna was not about to content himself with  a ?(r)fragment', George Arundale begrudged him even that, feeling that his  own knowledge of the Lord made it unlikely that Krishna had even that  fragment. 
与此同时，克里希纳按计划与贝赞特夫人一起回到了印度。在这里，她不让自己的困惑暴露在公众面前。她似乎至少部分地接受了奎师那对自己的看法，因为她承认他的意识与世界导师的碎片混合在一起。虽然奎师那不打算满足于“碎片”，乔治・阿伦代尔甚至对他感到嫉妒，觉得他自己对主的了解使奎师那甚至不可能拥有那个碎片。

    Leadbeater more or less kept his own counsel at this time, treading  the narrow ledge between Mrs Besant and Krishna on the one hand  and George Arundale and his faction on the other. Krishna had the  impression that Leadbeater was totally behind him, even ?(r)reverential'  toward him. But others witnessed that ?(r)Leadbeater privately wished  that Krishna would *?(r)leave us alone to go on with our work?± and  was declaring that ?°the Coming has gone wrong.?± "4 
在这段时间里，Leadbeater或多或少地保持着自己的想法，一边是贝桑特夫人和克里希纳，另一边是乔治・阿伦代尔和他的派系。克里希纳的印象是，利德比特完全在他身后，甚至对他恭敬。但其他人目睹了这一点:利德比特私下里希望奎师那不要打扰我们，让我们继续工作。并宣称“降临”出了问题。±4

    Krishna was to become increasingly hostile towards George Arundale,  although always claiming that it was George who had feelings against  him. Rukmini declared later that her husband George had no per- sonal grudge at all against Krishna, indeed had once loved him and  would have continued to do so had Krishna not turned on him. But  he did see Krishna's behaviour at that time as destructive for the  society.? 
奎师那对乔治・阿伦代尔越来越怀有敌意，尽管他总是声称是乔治对他有感情。鲁克米尼后来宣布，她的丈夫乔治对克里希纳没有任何个人恩怨，事实上，他曾经爱过他，如果克里希纳没有背叛他，他还会继续爱他。但他确实认为克里希纳当时的行为对社会是破坏性的。

    It soon became apparent that Krishna did not have as much influence  either on Leadbeater or on Mrs Besant as he might have hoped. They  suddenly launched a new vehicle in the shape of the world mother.  And who was to fill this role? None other than Rukmini! Typically,  memories and memos of the time often differ. 
很快就发现，克里希纳对利德比特和贝赞特夫人的影响并不像他所希望的那样大。他们突然推出了一款世界母亲形状的新车。谁来担任这个角色呢?不是别人，就是Rukmini!通常情况下，记忆和备忘录的时间往往不同。

    As Rukmini Devi recalled it, she had no warning of what was to  happen . . . when I interrogated Krishnamurti himself about the  whole World Mother affair, he blurted out, ?(r)Oh, that was all cooked  u⌒ before he caught himself in the realisation that he was admitting  to a recollection of events in his early life which he later came to deny  he possessed . . . 
正如鲁克米尼・德维回忆的那样，她对将要发生的事情没有任何警告…当我向克里希那穆提询问整个世界之母事件时，他脱口而出，“哦，那都是捏造出来的，然后他意识到他承认了他早年生活中发生的一些事情，后来他否认了这些事情……”

    What was going on in the mind of Rukmini Devi Arundale while  these remarkable things were happening to her is almost as fascinating  a tale as what was going on in the mind of Krishnamurti when he  realised the role for which he had been selected. A direct answer,  however, 1s possible in her case as it is not in his, because she frankly  and generously told her story to me one evening as we sat on the lawn  of her bungalow on the bank of the darkening Adyar River, whereas  Krishnamurti sitting cross-legged on the floor of his bare room on  the opposite side [of the river] insisted that he had forgotten his early life as the result of his final breaking with his past in the Theosophical Society.. 
当这些非凡的事情发生在Rukmini Devi Arundale身上时，她脑子里发生的事情几乎和克里希那穆提意识到自己被选中扮演的角色时脑子里发生的事情一样引人入胜。直接回答,然而,1 s可能在她的案子不是他,因为她向我坦白说,慷慨地告诉她的故事有一天晚上,我们坐在草坪上她的平房在黑暗的阿达河的银行,而克里希那穆提盘腿坐在他空荡荡的房间的地板另一侧(河)坚称,他已经忘记了他早期的生活作为他最后的结果在通神学会打破他的过去. .

    But the world mother was an even shorter-lived project than the world  teacher. Rukmini herself never felt an inner direction toward the role  and was instead to turn her considerable talents toward humanitarian  and artistic pursuits which would make a great contribution to her  country. 
但是，世界母亲是一个比世界教师更短命的项目。Rukmini自己从来没有对这个角色有过内在的方向，而是把她的才华转向人道主义和艺术追求，这将为她的国家做出巨大贡献。

    Krishna, no matter what his later memories or non-memories may  have been, did not take kindly to this new vehicle. He did not want  to be dragged into this new business any more than he had wanted  to be involved with the apostles incident. He blamed George for the  whole affair. It was reasonable for him to have assumed that George  was heavily involved in the world mother programme, but it had been  initially Leadbeater's idea. The whole situation hardened Krishna in his  determination to make a complete break with the society. 
奎师那，不管他后来的记忆或非记忆是什么，都不喜欢这辆新车。就像他不想卷入使徒事件一样，他也不愿意卷入这件新事情。他把整件事归咎于乔治。他有理由认为乔治与世界母亲计划密切相关，但这最初是利德比特的想法。整个情况坚定了奎师那与学会彻底决裂的决心。
