11 Finding the Way 寻找道路

    As Rosalind had originally suspected might happen, Raja did not  change at all. He gave little time to his marriage, then or in the  future, but he did stay with her in Ojai that winter, busily arrang- ing for the first Star camp to be held in May on the new land,  purchased the year before. Bath-houses and a cafeteria building were  being constructed, water lines, septic tanks and electricity laid in and tenting sites cleared. A staff of workers had to be arranged for and  funds raised. For all this Raja was responsible. This was the begin- ning of his close and long friendship with the Logans and Louis  Zalk, all of whom were very helpful in the Star Camp organization. 

正如罗莎琳德最初所怀疑的那样，拉贾根本没有改变。他几乎没有给他的婚姻时间，无论是当时还是将来，但他确实在那个冬天和她呆在奥海，忙着安排5月在前一年买的新土地上举行的第一次明星社营地。正在建造澡堂和自助餐厅，铺设水管、化粪池和电力，清理帐篷场地。必须安排一批工人，筹集资金。这一切都是拉贾的责任。这是他与洛根夫妇和路易斯・扎尔克亲密而长久的友谊的开始，他们都对星际营地的组织有很大的帮助。

    Raja was also to form a close relationship with his mother-in-law  Sophia and his sister-in-law Erma, both of whom loved him. Sophia  had the same fastidious nature and habits as Raja. In some ways they  both understood his nature better than did Rosalind, and when it came  to food, they would cook what he liked rather than what he should  eat, unlike Rosalind. In her increasing interest in nutrition, Rosalind  would become more and more determined to eat what was healthy.  Nevertheless her frugal and practical nature served their lives well, for  not only was frugality necessary but something they both agreed was  morally important, as they assumed, perhaps incorrectly, that it was  important to Krishna. 

拉贾还与他的岳母索菲亚和嫂子埃尔玛建立了亲密的关系，她们都爱他。索菲亚和拉贾有着同样挑剔的天性和习惯。在某些方面，他们都比罗莎琳德更了解他的天性，当谈到食物时，他们会做他喜欢的东西，而不是他应该吃的东西，不像罗莎琳德。随着她对营养学的兴趣日益浓厚，罗莎琳德越来越下定决心要吃健康的东西。然而，她的节俭和实际的性格对他们的生活很有帮助，因为不仅节俭是必要的，而且他们都认为这在道德上是重要的，因为他们假设，也许是错误的，这对克里希纳很重要。

    Ojai in May is dry and balmy. The rainy season months are behind.  The fields not yet burned by summer heat are soft gold, contrasting  with the dark green leaves and ancient gnarled limbs of the oaks. Nestled  against a hill, a grove of these trees formed a natural amphitheatre. Below  the Oak Grove were the widely spaced bath-houses and the cafeteria  building, low whitewashed structures in a barren treeless field. Tents  were erected in the flat land. The daily camp schedule allowed time for  rest but not restlessness, for meditation but not boredom. There were  morning and afternoon lectures, plays, or music ⌒ and a camp fire every  evening after dinner. Krishna did most of the lecturing, singing, and always lit the camp fire. An eyewitness at the first Ojai camp recorded  her impressions of that week. 

五月的奥海是干燥而温和的。雨季已经过去了。没有被夏日的炎热烧焦的田野是柔和的金色，与深绿色的树叶和古老的橡树的粗糙的树枝形成鲜明的对比。靠着小山，这些树的小树林形成了一个天然的圆形剧场。橡树林下面是间隔很宽的浴室和自助餐厅，低矮的白色建筑坐落在一片光秃秃的空地上。在平地上搭起了帐篷。每天的营地安排允许休息而不是焦躁不安，冥想而不是无聊。上午和下午都有讲座、戏剧或音乐，每天晚饭后都有篝火。克里希纳做了大部分的演讲，唱歌，总是点燃营火。第一个奥海营地的目击者记录了她对那个星期的印象。

    The spirit of the camp was extremely delightful, even though the  whole 900 people arrived on Monday, and there was all the confusion  of getting people to their tents, getting workers to prepare the dinner  and serve it. Everyone fell right in line, all had their dinner without  any confusion and everyone arrived at the camp fire with promptness,  happiness and the wonderful feeling of having come home to a big  family reunion . . . We sat down on our blankets next to someone we  had never seen before, but we felt at one with them right away . . .  to me it was a very great miracle, the fact that 900 people gathered  there together all of one mind, one thought, one big family, radiantly  happy, all one in the great upliftment that prevailed all through camp  week. 
营地的气氛非常愉快，尽管全部900人是在周一抵达的，让人们回到帐篷里，让工作人员准备晚餐并上菜，这一切都很混乱。每个人都排好了队，大家都毫无混乱地吃完饭，每个人都迅速地来到了篝火旁，幸福地享受着回家与家人团聚的美好感觉……我们坐在毯子上，坐在一个我们从未见过的人旁边，但我们马上就觉得和他们合而为一了…对我来说，这是一个非常伟大的奇迹，900人聚集在一起，大家都有一个想法，一个想法，一个大家庭，洋溢着快乐，所有人都沉浸在整个营地周普遍存在的巨大振奋之中。

    During the meetings . . . Krishnaji . . . never sat in one place very  long . . . moving three or four times . . . We felt he did this because  when he stayed in one place several people would not pay attent always while listening to another lecturer he gave a great deal of  his attention to the chirping and singing birds in the trees . . . 
在会议期间……克里希那吉……永远不要在一个地方坐太久……移动三四次……我们觉得他这样做是因为当他呆在一个地方，几个人不会注意听，总是在听另一个讲师，他把他的大量注意力放在啁啾和唱歌的鸟在树上…

    At one of the meetings Mr Jinarajadasa was asked to give his ideas  as to the World Teacher in Theosophy. I don't think it was planned  that Krishnaji was to speak but he came to the back of the platform  as Mr Jinarajadasa finished and asked if he might say a word . . .  with a mischievous smile on his face and said, ?(r)I have been taking  notes,?± at which they all laughed ⌒ so did he. Then he went on to  say that Mr Jinarajadasa had said so and so and that was not the way  he wanted it understood, he said, ?(r)I am going to bring [him] on the  blanket when I get home.' 
在其中一次会议上，有人请Jinarajadasa先生谈谈他对神智学世界导师的看法。我不认为克里希那吉是计划好要发言的，但是当吉那拉贾达萨先生结束演讲时，他走到讲台的后面，问他是否可以说一句话…他脸上带着调皮的微笑说:“我一直在记笔记。”他们都笑了，他也是。然后他继续说，吉那拉贾达萨先生说了这样那样的话，这不是他想要的理解方式，他说:“(或者)我回家后要把他放在毯子上。”

    It is such a pleasure to see the love that vibrates between Krishnaji  and Mr Rajagopal -they are both such slight, slender, sweet boys;  so full of life, joy and happiness, and always speak to each other  with great love and understanding, it just fills one with happiness to  see them together. Of course Rajagopal is all attention to Krishnaji's  wishes but there is not the slightest touch of servitude. Rajagopal is  very handsome, a keen, bright eye, very boyish but you can tell by  his talk that he is very powerful. 
看到克里希纳吉和拉贾戈帕尔先生之间的爱是如此的令人愉悦――他们都是如此纤细、苗条、甜美的男孩;如此充满生机，快乐和幸福，并且总是以极大的爱和理解彼此说话，看到他们在一起让人充满幸福。当然，拉贾戈帕尔完全关注克里希那吉的愿望，但没有丝毫的奴役感。拉贾戈帕尔非常英俊，一双敏锐明亮的眼睛，非常孩子气，但你可以从他的谈话中看出他非常强大。

    One wonders if there were any at that camp who might have lifted  themselves long enough out of their euphoria to consider the humiliation that Krishna's words had inflicted on his old tutor Jinarajadasa. It is  evident that the controversy about Krishna's blending of consciousness  was still going on and that Krishna was now strong and clear about  who he was. But it was still an emotional issue, as can be seen from  the question and answer session on the second day of camp. 

    ?(r)You say you have no disciples, no followers; are you ungrateful  to the Theosophical Society for what they have done in organizing  and working for the sole purpose of furthering your coming?' This  distressed him [Krishna] greatly, it just seemed to wring the very  heart blood out of him. He simply answered, ?(r)Is the rose ungrateful  to the rose bush, is the branch ungrateful to the tree??± When he closed  this meeting he said, ?(r)I hope I can be with you tonight, but I am so  tired and weary. Don't think I am making excuses, but this beating  up against the blank wall of prejudice and personalities is so very hard  and tiring . . . you ask one thing and do not listen to what I say. You  . . . put your own interpretation to my words without letting them  enter your inner self.'! 
(r)你说你没有门徒，没有追随者;你难道对神智学会忘恩负义吗?他们所做的一切都是为了促进你的到来?”这使他(克里希纳)非常痛苦，似乎把他的心都榨干了。他简单地回答说:“难道玫瑰对玫瑰丛忘恩负义，树枝对大树忘恩负义吗?”当会议结束时，他说:“我希望今晚能和你在一起，但是我太累了。”不要以为我在找借口，但这种对偏见和个性的空白墙的打击是如此的艰难和疲惫…你只求一件事，却不听我所说的话。你……用你自己的方式解读我的话，不要让它们进入你的内心。

    This would be a frequent complaint of Krishna's to his audiences for  the next half century. 
    At the end of May, Raja and Krishna went to Europe for the summer  Camp at Ommen. Rosalind stayed at home to allow her sister Erma to go  to Europe and to Ommen for the first time. They felt one of them should  be with Sophia, and Rosalind would also have to fill in for Erma with  Mary Gray. Raja would not be returning to Ojai until October. These  long separations were to become the pattern of their married life. 
在接下来的半个世纪里，这是克里希纳对他的听众经常抱怨的。
五月底，拉贾和克里希纳去欧洲欧曼参加夏令营。罗莎琳德呆在家里，让她的妹妹埃尔玛第一次去欧洲和阿曼。他们觉得应该有一个人和索菲亚在一起，而罗莎琳德也必须和玛丽・格雷一起代替厄玛。拉贾要到十月才能回到奥海。这种长期的分离成了他们婚后生活的模式。

    Judging from the letters Erma wrote home that summer to her mother  and Rosalind, this trip was a rare and exhilarating experience for her in  every way. It was Erma, with her interest in Theosophy, who had led  Rosalind on to her present path. Now Erma would meet and make  friends with the people in England and Holland who had already so  warmly befriended her younger sister. Busy as he was, Raja made an  effort to give Erma a good time in London before the Camp. 
从那年夏天埃尔玛写给母亲和罗莎琳德的信来看，这次旅行对她来说无论从哪个方面来说都是一次难得的、令人振奋的经历。正是埃尔玛，带着她对神智学的兴趣，引导罗莎琳德走上了她现在的道路。现在，埃尔玛将与英国和荷兰的人们见面，并与他们交朋友，他们已经对她的妹妹如此热情。尽管拉贾很忙，但他还是努力让埃尔玛在参加夏令营之前在伦敦玩得开心。

    A few weeks later Erma wrote to Rosalind and Sophia from Eerde  Castle: 
    It is great fun to be at the tables and hear people from Poland or  Russia talk in their own language to each other and fluently change  to French or English. This is certainly a great attempt of international  understanding if nothing else. 
几个星期后，埃尔玛从埃尔德城堡写信给罗莎琳德和索菲亚:
坐在桌边，听来自波兰或俄罗斯的人用自己的语言交谈，然后流利地转换成法语或英语，这是一件非常有趣的事情。这当然是国际理解的一次伟大尝试。

    Tennis matches are on every afternoon and many play on the fine  courts. Others go bicycling and walking . . . Mr Mac Bean, etc all  think Raja very wonderful. He has accomplished tremendous things  here. Winifred told me last night that she has learned much working  this past week for him and that no one in the work can have the  faintest conception of what a careful administrator of money he is. 
每天下午都有网球比赛，许多比赛在漂亮的球场上进行。其他人骑自行车和散步…麦克比恩先生等都认为拉贾很了不起。他在这里取得了巨大的成就。温妮弗雷德昨晚告诉我，上个星期她在他手下工作，学到了很多东西，工作人员根本想象不到他是一个多么细心的理财家。

    Fenn told me that one is forced to grow rapidly here, one sees a  great change in all . . . Eerde itself is wonderful and one feels in  complete touch with nature. I am sure one can travel quickly here  if it is within to do so. 
芬恩告诉我，一个人被迫在这里快速成长，一个人看到了巨大的变化…埃尔德本身是美妙的，人们感觉与自然完全接触。我相信，只要条件允许，一个人可以在这里快速旅行。

    Evidently Erma was not among those Theosophists or devotees  anxiously awaiting the world teacher; for Krishna's basic thrust that  summer, opening the way for the total dissolution of the Order of the  Star, seems not to have alarmed or confused her, although she remained  in most respects a devoted Theosophist for the rest of her life. 
显然，尔玛不在那些焦虑地等待世界导师的神智学家或奉献者之列;因为那年夏天克里希纳的基本行动，为彻底解散星团开辟了道路，似乎并没有使她惊慌或困惑，尽管她在余生中在大多数方面都是一位虔诚的神智学者。

    Eerde July 11  There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that we are enjoying the  greatest privilege in the world. 
我毫不怀疑，我们正享有世界上最大的特权。

    We meet in the meditation room at 11 o'clock. This morning  Krishnaji was answering questions. The wisdom he uses is beyond  anything I have ever experienced and he makes the goal of Truth so  real, so necessary to attain. When asked about the Order of the Star,  he says it is useful as a bridge to enter the Truth, but as quickly as  it ceases to be the bridge . . . we must break up the Order. That  we must develop beauty and purity and truth within, unfold the life  within, which so shines without that we become the bridge to that  life so others might come and cross. 
我们11点在冥想室见面。今天早上克里希那吉在回答问题。他所使用的智慧是我从未经历过的，他使真理的目标如此真实，如此需要达到。当被问及星团时，他说它是进入真理的桥梁，但很快它就不再是桥梁了…我们必须解散凤凰社。我们必须发展内在的美、纯洁和真实，展现内在的生活，外在的生活如此闪耀，我们成为通往那种生活的桥梁，让其他人可以来来往往。

    I had a short walk with him yesterday and told him that I, too,  wanted to cross the *ream to the other shore he was talking about,  but how to find the way. He said, ?°You will do it,?± that strength and  will were necessary to break the fetters and advised me to go into the  woods after the meetings. Someway I can be freer with him and more  nearly myself than with anyone else. One thing he said this morning  was that the sap did not concern itself with whether it was to express  as leaves or flowers, but fulfils its own uniqueness. He said that hope  and truth were not the same and seemed to think that hope created a  barrier to truth. 
昨天我和他散了一小会儿步，告诉他我也想穿过这条河，到他说的彼岸去，但不知道怎么找到路。他说:“你会做的。”他认为力量和意志是打破束缚所必需的，并建议我在会议结束后到树林里去。在某种程度上，我和他在一起比和其他人在一起更自由，更接近我自己。他今天早上说的一件事是，树液并不关心自己是表现为叶子还是花朵，而是表现出自己的独特性。他说希望和真理是不一样的，似乎认为希望给真理制造了障碍。

    The whole event I consider the greatest privilege of my life and  feel so grateful that I am experiencing it. 
我认为整个事件是我生命中最大的荣幸，我很感激自己经历了这一切。

 
    Mr and Mrs. Leopold Stokowski, the Director of the Philadelphia  Philharmonic Orchestra came today. All these people have fascinating  histories and are splendid to know intimately. All are devoted to  Krishnaji and now there seems to be a blending and deeper under- standing among all. 
利奥波德・斯托科夫斯基先生和夫人，费城爱乐乐团的指挥今天来了。所有这些人都有迷人的历史，值得深入了解。所有人都献身于克里希那吉，现在似乎在所有人之间有了一种融合和更深的理解。

    Raja is very busy and I see very little of him. He works late  hours.  .. . I suppose the apricot season is just about finishing up and  things have been very busy at Ojai.  Much love to my darling mother,  ERMA 
    (Stokowski too must have heard about those apricots, for a year or  so later he called on Marvel, Erma's sister in Ojai, and asked if he could  come by for a piece of her famous apricot pie.) 
拉贾很忙，我很少见到他。他工作到很晚. .. .我想杏子的季节就要结束了，奥海的生意很忙。爱我亲爱的妈妈ERMA
(斯托科夫斯基肯定也听说过这些杏子，大约一年后，他拜访了埃尔玛在奥海的妹妹马维尔(Marvel)，问他能不能过来吃一块她著名的杏子派。)

    Erma had the opportunity to make what would be lifelong friends  at Ommen. 
    Marvel will be interested to know that Mrs Hastings's grandfather  was Josiah Bailey who endowed Swarthmore College and her uncle  built Wharton Hall. She comes of an old Quaker family and knows  all Philadephia society. She said her grandfather had the best occult  library in America and because she was so interested in it when she  owned it, her husband burned it in the early days of married life.  Now he believes these things and they are very devoted . . . 
埃尔玛有机会在欧曼结识了一生的朋友。
马维尔肯定有兴趣知道，黑斯廷斯夫人的祖父是乔赛亚・贝利，他捐赠了斯沃斯莫尔学院，她的叔叔建造了沃顿学院。她出身于一个古老的贵格会教徒家庭，熟悉费城的社交圈。她说她的祖父拥有美国最好的神秘学图书馆，因为她在拥有它的时候对它非常感兴趣，她丈夫在婚后不久就把它烧掉了。现在他相信这些事情，他们非常投入……

    She was amazed at her bill which she considers astonishingly  small, so she gave Raja $500 toward the tennis court and promises  him something every month; because she thinks him wonderful. (I  paid about $65 for the month.) 
她对自己的账单感到惊讶，她认为自己的账单少得惊人，所以她给了拉贾500美元用于网球场，并承诺每个月给他一些钱;因为她觉得他很棒。(我一个月花了大约65美元。)

    She says Philadelphia would be shocked to see Mr Stokowski going  shoeless into the meditation room. He played a lot of his trial records  for us the other night and they were wonderful . . . 
她说，如果看到斯托科夫斯基光着脚走进冥想室，整个费城都会感到震惊。那天晚上他给我们放了很多他的审判记录，非常棒……

    Love to all from  ERMA 
    P.S. J. K.'s definition ofa cultured man is: ?(r)A cultured man is he  who is absolute ruler of himself, who is not dominated by passing  feelings, but who is dominated by intuition and who does not demand  anything from any individual.'  He says there is a creative faculty without form (with which Mr  Stokowski agrees) which is the ultimate stage but that the creative  faculty expressed in form is the beginning. ?(r)Life must take form to  function, but form is not all there is of life.' 
 ERMA向所有人问好
p.s.j.k。他对有文化的人的定义是:“(r)有文化的人是绝对主宰自己的人，他不受一时的感情支配，而是受直觉支配，不向任何人索取任何东西。”他说，有一种没有形式的创造力(斯托科夫斯基同意这一点)，这是最终阶段，但以形式表达的创造力是开始。生命必须有形式才能发挥作用，但形式并不是生命的全部。

    ... he says that truth or life cannot be stepped down or translated into  forms, creeds, beliefs or ceremonies, the minute that is attempted, it  ceases to be truth, that we should come to fulfilment through ourselves  and in the living of our lives becomes life itself and thus the bridge  which others seeing the example may cross to that truth. 
…他说，真理或生活不能被放下或翻译成形式，信条，信仰或仪式，一旦尝试，它就不再是真理，我们应该通过自己来实现，在我们的生活中成为生活本身，因此其他人看到榜样可能会跨越真理的桥梁。

    . . . Krishnaji has been very well lately, playing volley ball etc.  Everyone is very enthusiastic about him and his talks. [ know I am  quite changed and would not have missed this summer's experience  for a great deal. 
……克里希纳吉最近表现很好，打排球等。每个人都对他和他的演讲充满热情。我知道我已经改变了很多，我不会错过这个夏天的经历。

    One can only hope that Krishna himself, by the end of the camp,  realized that there were many there who were willing and trying to  follow his message. He had felt in the early summer that people were  antagonistic to what he was saying, perhaps picking up from certain  Theosophists a bewilderment at his new direction. Reports from the  camp did not bring comfort to poor Mrs Besant, whose health continued  to decline, both mentally and physically. 
我们只能希望克里希纳自己，在训练营结束时，意识到有很多人愿意并试图遵循他的信息。在初夏的时候，他感觉到人们对他的言论持反对态度，也许是受了某些神智学家的影响，对他的新方向感到困惑。来自难民营的报道并没有给可怜的贝赞特夫人带来安慰，她的健康状况在精神上和身体上都持续恶化。

    Neither did the Theosophical rule of never gossiping always hold  fast. It was somewhat disconcerting to Raja to be told by several people  that they heard Rosalind was going to have a baby. Erma wrote home  inquiring: 
神智学中绝不说长道短的原则也不总是有效。有几个人告诉拉贾，他们听说罗莎琳德要生孩子了，这让拉贾有些不安。尔玛写信回家询问:

    Eerde August 2  Dearest Mother, 
    Raja came to me and asked if[ knew anything about the rumor that  Rosalind was to have a baby. He could not believe that she would not  have told him. I told him that several people had asked me and that |  cheerfully denied it, having believed Ros would have told us, if so.  But now Mrs C.]. [Jinarajadasa] tells Raja that Max Wardall told her  it was s& and was quite apparent. Of course I would be glad if it were  to be and so would Raja. But this is a funny way to find out such  news if it is true. 
8月2日亲爱的妈妈:
拉贾来找我，问我是否知道罗莎琳德要生孩子的传言。他不敢相信她竟然不告诉他。我告诉他，有几个人问过我，我高高兴兴地否认了，因为我相信如果是这样，罗斯会告诉我们的。但是现在c夫人。[Jinarajadasa]告诉Raja, Max Wardall告诉她那是s，而且很明显。如果是这样，我当然会很高兴，拉贾也是。但这是一个有趣的方式来找出这样的消息，如果它是真的。

    In haste,  ERMA 
    The rumour was not true. It would be three more years before I, their  only child, was born. But Raja had other concerns that summer. 
赶紧，ERMA
谣言不是真的。又过了三年，他们唯一的孩子我才出生。但那个夏天，拉贾还有其他的担忧。

    Krishna was ever widening the gap between himself and the Theosophi- cal Society. There were many who could understand and sympathize  with him on this issue even if they could not understand what he was saying. Some could extricate themselves from the emotional and  spiritual muddle that this alienation was creating and some were left  in total confusion. For, on one hand, Krishna was declaring that  there should be no authority; yet on the other he had insistently and  dramatically portrayed his own new condition as being united ?(r)with  the flame' and having the ?(r)vision of the mountain top', which seemed  to place him in a position of ultimate authority, nor did he specifically  deny that he was the world teacher. If he had been willing quite simply  to step aside or step down from the height on which Leadbeater and  Mrs Besant had placed him and stand as a mere human being on his  own philosophy, a great deal of present and future confusion could  have been avoided. But then, of course, he risked losing everything  the Theosophical Society and individual Theosophists had willingly  given him ⌒ the Order of the Star, the castle, the land in Ommen,  Ojai and India, and most important, a sizeable international following.  He claimed he did not want followers which, perhaps, he did not equate  with the audiences who would fill his camps and lecture halls for years  to come. 
克里希纳一直在扩大他自己和神智学会之间的差距。在这个问题上，有许多人能够理解和同情他，即使他们不明白他在说什么。有些人可以从这种异化所造成的情感和精神混乱中解脱出来，有些人则完全陷入混乱。因为，一方面，克里希纳宣称不应该有权威;然而，另一方面，他又坚持地、戏剧性地把自己的新状态描绘成与火焰结合在一起，“拥有山顶的视野”，这似乎使他处于最高权威的地位，他也没有特别否认他是世界的导师。如果他愿意从利德比特和贝赞特夫人给他的高度退下来，以一个普通人的身份坚持自己的哲学，那么现在和将来的许多混乱就可以避免。但是，当然，他冒着失去神智学会和个别神智学者心甘情愿给予他的一切的风险星星勋章，城堡，欧门，奥海和印度的土地，最重要的是，大量的国际追随者。他声称他不想要追随者，也许，他不把追随者等同于那些在未来几年里会挤满他的营地和演讲厅的听众。

    To please him Mrs Besant had closed all the Esoteric Society chapters  throughout the world, stating that Krishna was the teacher and ought  to teach ⌒ no one else. But this victory would be short lived. After  a short time Mrs Besant re-opened the ES. Her health was failing,  she was losing her memory and she was stranded in the midst of an  increasing conflict. 
为了取悦克里希纳，贝赞特夫人关闭了世界各地所有的密教会分会，说克里希纳是老师，不应该教其他任何人。但这场胜利将是短暂的。过了一会儿，贝赞特夫人重新打开了ES。她的健康状况每况愈下，她的记忆力正在衰退，她被困在日益加剧的冲突之中。

    While Krishna had been struggling with the Theosophists, Raja had  been struggling with his personal perception of Krishna and the internal  frictions that had arisen around him within the society. Unlike Krishna,  who appeared to consider himself entitled to all that had been given  to him, Raja felt, and always would feel, a deep gratitude and duty  toward his benefactors, no matter what differences might arise. Just  as Nitya had been upset by Krishna's behaviour toward Mrs Besant  and Leadbeater, now Raja felt a similar distress. Some of the ideas that  were emanating from Krishna were indeed remarkable and Raja fully  recognized this. Yet, not having the mentality of a blind devotee, he was  able, sometimes to his discomfort, to see the often extreme bifurcation  in Krishna's private behaviour and his public message. Knowing that  Raja saw this did not endear him to Krishna; especially since, as the  years passed, Raja would be more outspoken with Krishna when these  instances occurred. But Krishna also seemed to recognize and rely upon  certain characteristics in Raja: enduring loyalty and commitment, and a capacity for love which once awakened was never withdrawn, no  matter how hurt he might be. 
当克里希纳一直在与神智学家们斗争时，拉贾一直在与他对克里希纳的个人看法和在他周围出现的社会内部摩擦作斗争。克里希纳似乎认为自己有权得到所有给予他的东西，而拉贾不像他那样，对他的恩人感到，并将永远感到深深的感激和责任，不管可能产生什么分歧。就像尼提亚对克里希纳对待贝桑特太太和利德比特的行为感到不安一样，现在拉贾也感到了同样的痛苦。克里希纳发出的一些思想确实很了不起，拉贾完全认识到了这一点。然而，由于没有盲目奉献者的心态，他能够看到克里希纳的私人行为和公开信息之间经常出现的极端分歧，这有时会让他感到不安。知道拉贾看到了这一点，并没有使他亲近克里希纳;特别是因为，随着岁月的流逝，当这些情况发生时，拉贾会对克里希纳更加直言不讳。但克里希纳似乎也认识并依赖拉贾的某些特征:持久的忠诚和承诺，以及一旦觉醒就永不退缩的爱的能力，无论他可能受到多大的伤害。

    When Krishna returned to India with Mrs Besant after the 1928  Ommen Camp, Raja returned to America, where he was joined by  Rosalind on another lecture tour. 
1928年欧门营结束后，克里希纳和贝赞特夫人回到了印度，拉贾也回到了美国，罗莎琳德和他一起开始了另一次巡回演讲。

    The tour included Cuba, where they met a fashion designer, Mme  Barrero, who was quite impressed with Rosalind's ability to design  clothes, especially sportswear, and suggested that there be an affiliation  between them. At that time Rosalind could not see how such a career  would fit into her life. 
这次旅行包括古巴，他们在那里遇到了一位时装设计师巴雷罗夫人(Mme Barrero)，她对罗莎琳德设计服装，尤其是运动服的能力印象深刻，并建议他们之间建立联系。当时罗莎琳德还不明白这样的职业如何适合她的生活。

    Raja had planned to give about thirty lectures in as many different  cities but after nineteen he called a halt and, without giving the true  reason, cancelled the rest of the tour. He felt simply that he could not  go on talking about Krishna as the world teacher. He would remain  caught between the commitment he had made to Mrs Besant with the  promise he had made to Nitya, to help Krishna in his work, and his  own awareness that Krishna was not the vehicle. Nevertheless he still  had an inner conviction that in continuing with his part of ?(r)the Work',  editing and arranging Krishna's talks, he would be realizing not only his  own dharma but also fulfilling the expectations that had been placed on  him by Leadbeater and Mrs Besant. However, from then on he would  stay in the background. 
拉贾原计划在许多不同的城市做30场演讲，但19场演讲结束后，他叫停了，并没有给出真正的原因，取消了其余的巡演。他只是觉得他不能再把克里希纳说成是世界导师了。他对贝桑特夫人的承诺和对尼提亚的承诺，帮助克里希纳完成他的工作，以及他自己意识到克里希纳不是他的载体，他将继续进退两难。尽管如此，他内心仍然坚信，继续他的“工作”，编辑和安排克里希纳的谈话，他不仅实现了自己的佛法，而且实现了利德比特和贝赞特夫人对他的期望。然而，从那时起，他将留在后台。
