12 The Pathless Land 无路之国
    In spring 1929, Raja was again preparing for the May Camp in the  QOak Grove when Krishna returned to Ojai exhausted. The talks  were postponed. Krishna went with Rosalind and the Ingelmans to  recuperate at Idylwild in the southern California mountains. Here,  without preamble of the ?(r)process' he turned to Rosalind for comfort  from his exhaustion. In the mountains that he loved and under her  care the pain in his head and his bronchitis were alleviated. Krishna, at  thirty-four, could still arouse in a woman a mothering instinct usually  reserved for a young child. When he sometimes came into her bed,  Rosalind held him like a small sick boy, later innocently relating these  occurrences to Raja, who accepted her words at face value. It would  not have occurred to either of them or to anyone else in their circle to  do otherwise. 
1929年春天，当克里希纳精疲力竭地回到奥海时，拉贾再次在橡树林准备五月营。会谈被推迟了。克里希纳与罗莎琳德和英格曼一家一起去南加州山区的爱德怀尔德休养。说到这里，他连开头也没有说，就转向罗莎琳德寻求安慰，以解除他的疲惫。在他所热爱的山里，在她的照顾下，他的头痛和支气管炎都减轻了。克利希那已经三十四岁了，仍然能唤起一个女人通常只对小孩子才有的母性本能。当他有时来到她的床上时，罗莎琳德像抱着一个生病的小男孩一样抱着他，后来天真地把这些事情告诉了拉贾，拉贾从表面上接受了她的话。他们中的任何一个人，或者他们圈子里的任何人，都不会想到不这样做。

    Although he had cancelled most of his lectures that spring, Krishna  still had the energy to discuss reorganization. Raja had come to feel that  Krishna's new direction made the Order of the Star inappropriate and  that a much simpler organization should be established instead. They  spent hours each day talking over plans that would change everything,  the Star publications, the nature of the camps. 
尽管克里希纳取消了那年春天的大部分讲座，但他仍有精力讨论重组。拉贾觉得克里希纳的新方向使明星社变得不合适，应该建立一个更简单的组织。他们每天花几个小时讨论改变一切的计划，包括《星报》的出版物和集中营的性质。

    By the time the Ommen Camp opened in August Krishna had moved  inexorably toward the dissolution of the Order of the Star. He could now  rest assured that Raja was firmly by his side to build the organization he  would need for the future. He was hardly stepping off the cliff. The  Order of the Star would be replaced by the Star Publishing Trust. 
等到8月欧门营开营的时候，克里希纳已经无情地走向解散明星社的方向。他现在可以放心了，拉贾坚定地站在他身边，建立他未来需要的组织。他几乎没有走下悬崖。明星社将被明星出版信托所取代。

    Now that Phillip van Pallandt was married and expecting a child,  the Dutch Government wanted him to reclaim Eerde Castle for his  heirs, as it was a historical estate. The following year Raja would have  the complicated task of returning title and sorting out the financial  entanglements that resulted from this exchange as many improvements  had been made by the Order of the Star. The pine forest land with the  rustic but quite comfortable huts was retained for the Camp. 
现在菲利普・范・帕朗特已经结婚生子了，荷兰政府希望他把埃尔德城堡收回给他的继承人，因为它是一处历史遗产。第二年，拉贾将面临一项复杂的任务，那就是归还爵位，并处理由于这次交换而产生的财务纠纷，因为明星社已经做出了许多改进。松林的土地上保留了质朴但相当舒适的小屋。

    Krishna could now retire from all his earthly responsibilities, continue to refuse ownership of property, and withdraw from all his trusts. He  had found one man in whom he could have total confidence, to publish  his talks, to raise money, to run the Camps in Ommen and Qjai, to  travel with him and to ensure his unhampered freedom. If there would  always be a discrepancy between his actual situations and the image he  put forth, it did not appear to concern him. Yet his frequent references to  himself as a beggar, without personal belongings or wealth, were much  too literally expressed to be taken metaphorically. Krishna owned a series  of expensive cars, the most fashionable clothes, and always had several  houses at his disposal, not only figuratively but legally, whether held in  title in his name or in trust for him is surely irrelevant. He would never  publicly admit that he needed clothes, automobiles, travel funds, places  to live, to talk and to rest. To acquire the money for ali these things  would be Raja's concern, leaving Krishna free to make his declaration  of independence. That summer of 1929 at the opening talk of the  Ommen Camp Krishna announced the dissolution of the Order of  the Star and declared that ?(r)truth is a pathless land', that henceforth  he wanted no followers, and that his only concern was to set men  free from the bondage of all religions, beliefs and fears, as he had set  himself free. 
克里希纳现在可以从他所有的尘世责任中退休，继续拒绝拥有财产，并退出他所有的信托。他找到了一个他完全信任的人，可以出版他的演讲，筹集资金，管理欧门和凯伊的营地，和他一起旅行，并确保他不受阻碍的自由。如果他的实际情况和他所描绘的形象之间总是有出入的话，那他似乎并不关心。然而，他经常把自己说成是一个乞丐，没有私人物品或财富，这太过于字面化了，不能用比喻来理解。克里希纳拥有一系列昂贵的汽车，最时尚的衣服，并且总是有几所房子可供他使用，不仅是象征性的，而且是合法的，无论是以他的名义还是以他的信托名义持有，肯定是无关紧要的。他从不公开承认他需要衣服、汽车、旅行资金、居住、谈话和休息的地方。拉贾关心的是为这些事情筹集资金，让克里希纳自由地宣布独立。1929年夏天，在欧门营的开幕式上，克里希纳宣布解散星团，并宣称“真理是无路之地”，从此他不再需要追随者，他唯一关心的是把人们从所有宗教、信仰和恐惧的束缚中解放出来，就像他自己解放了自己一样。

    ?(r)All conquering and all knowing am I, detached, untainted, untram- melled, wholly freed by destruction of desire. Whom shall I call Teacher?  Myself found the way.?± Those lines, rooted in Krishna's mind nine years  before, came to fruition in this talk. 
“我是一切的征服者和一切的知者，超然的，不受污染的，不受干扰的，完全从欲望的毁灭中解脱出来。我该叫谁老师呢？我自己找到了路。” 这些九年前根植于克里希纳心中的诗句，在这次演讲中结出了果实。

    Yet Krishna was still speaking to a predominantly Theosophical  audience, present there by invitation. There were many who found his  words confusing ⌒ even alarming. They had been waiting for eighteen  years for the world teacher to appear and now Krishna had told them  to ?(r)wait for someone else', he had nothing to do with it. It is unlikely  that anyone was sufficiently intrepid to add up the time, energy, money  and hope?(r)that had been riding on him for all those years, now dashed  in one very eloquent hour. 
然而，克里希纳仍在向一群受邀请出席的主要是神智学的听众讲话。有许多人觉得他的话令人困惑甚至令人担忧。他们已经等了十八年世界导师的出现，而现在克里希纳告诉他们“等别人”，这与他无关。不太可能有人有足够的勇气把那些年来一直压在他身上的时间、精力、金钱和希望加在一起，现在却在一个非常雄辩的小时内化为乌有。

    Whatever confusion and heartache his words had inflicted on Mrs  Besant, she once again revealed her own greatness of spirit as she  publicly supported Krishna by stating: 
无论他的话给贝赞特夫人带来了怎样的困惑和心痛，她再一次展现了自己伟大的精神，她公开支持克里希纳，说:

    the very absence of an organisation might appeal to the more intel- ligent people who think out their own ?(r)Great Truth' . . . My  fundamental belief in Krishnamurti as the World Teacher makes me  more inclined to observe and study rather than express an opinion  on one whom I consider far my superior.' 
”组织的缺乏可能会吸引那些更聪明的人，他们自己思考’伟大的真理‘……我对克里希那穆提是世界导师的基本信念，使我更倾向于观察和研究，而不是对一个我认为比我优越得多的人发表意见。”

      Privately she would remain confused about him for the rest of her  life. Publicly her motherly love for him appeared to suppeort her faith  that he would ultimately fulfil the role for which he had been chosen  and nurtured for the past twenty years. 
私下里，她的余生都会对他感到困惑。在公开场合，她对他的母爱似乎支持了她的信念，即他最终会履行他在过去二十年中被选择和培养的角色。

    Krishna and Raja both attended Mrs Besant's eighty-second blrthday  celebration in London on 1 October. This occasion united her not only  with her children but also brought together amicably, for that one  evening at least, the factions in her ?(r)spiritual' family. Her birthday  message to the world reflected her continuing hope for world and  individual harmony. 
克里希纳和拉贾都参加了10月1日在伦敦举行的贝赞特夫人82岁生日庆祝活动。这一场合不仅使她与孩子们团结在一起，而且至少在那一个晚上，使她的精神家庭中的派系友好地团结在一起。她给世界的生日贺词反映了她对世界和个人和谐的持续希望。

    If every one of us will work, strenuously and continuously, until  each has purged his heart of every trace of resentment against every  person, who has, he thinks, injured him, we shall then find, perhaps  to our surprise, that Peace is reigning over the whole world.2 
如果我们每一个人都努力不懈地工作，直到清除掉心中对每一个他认为伤害过他的人的每一丝怨恨，也许我们会惊奇地发现，和平正在统治整个世界

    Krishna continued with his own theme, not peace but liberation;  liberation of human beings from the fetters of their own beliefs and fears,  and liberation for him from the role set upon him by the Theosophical  Society. 
克里希纳继续他自己的主题，不是和平，而是解放；把人类从他们自己的信仰和恐惧的束缚中解放出来，把他从神智学会赋予他的角色中解放出来。

    Three years earlier, in 1926, Mrs Besant had encouraged Krishna's  flowering interest in education by making him the President of the Theo- sophical Educational Trust. The TET had come into existence as part of  Mrs Besant's plan to free the entire Indian educational system from its  domination by the British, who were trying to denationalize all Indians.  For this purpose, under various trusts, Mrs Besant raised money, bought  land and started many schools and colleges throughout India. Long  before Krishna's presidency of it, the Arundales also had travelled all  over India to raise money for the National High School in Adyar under  the TET. This school, run by Theosophists, had flourished. 
三年前，也就是1926年，贝赞特夫人任命克里希纳为西奥哲学教育信托基金的主席，鼓励他对教育产生浓厚的兴趣。“TET”的成立是贝赞特夫人计划的一部分，目的是将整个印度教育体系从英国人的统治下解放出来，因为英国人试图将所有印度人非国有化。为此，贝赞特夫人通过各种信托基金筹集资金，购买土地，并在印度各地开办了许多学校和大学。早在克里希纳担任主席之前，阿伦达尔一家就在TET的指导下走遍了印度各地，为阿迪亚的国立高中筹集资金。这所由神智学者管理的学校曾经很繁荣。

    When Krishna decided to resign from all organizations in 1930, he  resigned also from the TET. This dealt a serious blow to all the schools  under the trust. His followers, who had been helping, also lost interest  and the trust could no longer function. He wanted to sell the school  land in Adyar for which Mrs Besant and the Arundales had raised  money, and transfer the school to a tract of land near Madanapalle  which one of his followers had found for him. This school was then  renamed Rishi Valley. Much the same procedure was followed with  the school in Benares, later called Rajghat. Eventually a Bengali lawyer  discovered that the transfer of the trust to Krishna's ownership had not  been legally enacted. Thus the TET was still alive and could be revived  by interested Theosophists like George Arundale, by then President of the society.? It is not difficult to imagine the ill-feelings that must have  arisen during all these transfers and negotiations. 
当克里希纳在1930年决定辞去所有组织的职务时，他也辞去了TET的职务。这对所有托管的学校都是一个严重的打击。一直在帮助他的追随者也失去了兴趣，信托基金无法继续运作。他想卖掉贝赞特夫人和阿伦代尔夫妇为其筹集的阿迪亚学校的土地，把学校转移到他的一个追随者为他找到的马达纳帕勒附近的一块土地上。这所学校后来更名为理士谷。贝拿勒斯的一所学校也遵循了大致相同的程序，后来被称为Rajghat。最终，一名孟加拉律师发现，将信托转移给克里希纳的所有权并没有在法律上生效。因此，TET仍然存在，并且可以被感兴趣的神智学者如乔治・阿伦代尔(George Arundale)(当时的协会主席)所复兴。不难想象，在所有这些转移和谈判过程中，一定会产生不良情绪。


    If to some people Mrs Besant appeared confused in her statements  about Krishna, Leadbeater viewed her in a different light, as seeing more  eye to eye with him regarding Krishna's role as the vehicle. Leadbeater  pointed out to George Arundale that Mrs Besant was careful in her  statements at the school to make clear that the manifestation was only  partial, that Krishna was only the vehicle of the world teacher and that  members should not be limited to studying only Krishna's writings,  although she did request that they be included in their programme.  Leadbeater went on to say that Mrs Besant did not approve of Krishna's  intolerant and exaggerated statements any more than he, Leadbeater,  or Arundale did, but neither would she obstruct him, feeling that they  each had their own work and should not interfere with one another.  According to Leadbeater Mrs Besant allowed that Krishna should show  a certain fanaticism in order to make a strong impact on his public. 
如果在一些人看来，贝赞特夫人对克里希纳的说法似乎有些困惑，那么利德比特则以不同的眼光看待她，在克里希纳作为载体的角色上，她与他的看法更加一致。利德比特向乔治・阿伦代尔指出，贝桑特夫人在学校的陈述中非常谨慎，明确表示这种显现只是部分的，克里希纳只是世界老师的载体，成员不应该局限于只学习克里希纳的著作，尽管她确实要求将其纳入他们的课程中。利德比特接着说，贝赞特夫人和他、利德比特、阿伦代尔一样，都不赞成克里希纳的偏执和夸张的言论，但她也不会妨碍他，觉得他们各自有自己的工作，不应该互相干扰。根据利德比特的说法，贝赞特夫人允许克里希纳表现出一定的狂热，以便对他的公众产生强烈的影响。

    However, Krishna was no longer concerned with Leadbeater's opin- ion. He wrote to Mrs Besant in February 1930 reiterating his confidence  in his own direction despite the opposition of Leadbeater or a million  others. 
然而，克里希纳不再关心利德比特的意见。1930年2月，他写信给贝赞特夫人，重申了他对自己方向的信心，即使有利德比特或其他一百万人反对。

    The protectorship was over. It was not made an open issue, but there  was now a definite estrangement between Leadbeater and Krishna,  one which would never heal. Ultimately Krishna would express the  opinion that Leadbeater was evil.# His teachings were now undercutting  Leadbeater and many of the other Theosophical leaders. Their effort to  maintain their positions by explaining that the coming had gone wrong  and that Krishna no longer belonged in the society was, in his eyes, an  open declaration of war. Leadbeater was to become more and more  assertive that the coming had gone wrong, and even go so far as to sug- gest that if it hadn't been for Mrs Besant's certainty, no one would have  paid much'attention to Krishna at all. Although he had been the one to  discover the young Krishna, he had very soon become open to the possi- bility that he had made a mistake. Now he appeared to be convinced. 
保护期结束了。这并不是一个公开的问题，但现在利德比特和克里希纳之间有了明确的隔阂，这种隔阂永远不会愈合。最后，克里希纳表示，利德比特是邪恶的。#他的教导现在削弱了利德比特和许多其他神智学领袖。在他看来，他们试图通过解释未来出了问题，克里希纳不再属于这个社会来维持自己的地位，这是在公开宣战。利德比特越来越坚定地认为这次到来出了问题，甚至还说，如果不是因为贝赞特夫人的肯定，根本就不会有人注意克里希纳。虽然是他发现了年轻的克里希纳，但他很快就意识到自己可能犯了一个错误。现在他似乎被说服了。

    When, in 1930, Krishna resigned from the Theosophical Society, Raja  did not follow him in this formal step and was to retain most of his close  friendships within the society in spite of Krishna's increasing antagonism. Later this would become a sore point between Krishna and Raja. 
1930年，当克里希纳从神智学会辞职时，拉贾并没有跟随他走这一正式的步骤，尽管克里希纳的敌意不断增加，但他仍在学会中保留了大部分亲密的友谊。后来，这成为克里希纳和拉贾之间的一个痛处。

    Raja's and Rosalind's lives were so full of people, travel, idealism and  work that it would have been a wonder if they ever had time to stop  and take stock of their own relationship. They were separated for long intervals and even when they were together they were seldom alone.  One or the other of them was usually with Krishna, for it had long  since been recognized that he should not be left on his own and they  were always conscious of their promise to Nitya. Yet there was the  inevitable strain of having too many people around, those who invited  themselves and those whom Krishna inadvertently invited ⌒ then wished he hadn't.  Rosalind's interest in fashion design did not wane. This talent served  her well in making her own clothes and sometimes a sweater or shirt for Raja. In the summer of 1930, following an invitation from Mme  Barrero, whom she had first met in Cuba, she went to Paris to attend  the fashion openings. It was typical of Raja that he never put down  another's interest, no matter how removed it might be from his own.  Throughout their life Rosalind would follow many pursuits, each with  great eagerncss; he always encouraged these ventures. 
拉贾和罗莎琳德的生活充满了人、旅行、理想主义和工作，如果他们有时间停下来评估一下他们自己的关系，那将是一个奇迹。他们分开的时间很长，即使在一起，他们也很少独处。他们中的一个或另一个通常和克里希纳在一起，因为他们早就认识到他不应该独自一人，他们总是意识到他们对尼提亚的承诺。然而，有太多的人在身边是不可避免的压力，那些邀请自己的人和那些克里希纳无意中邀请的人都希望他没有邀请。罗莎琳德对时装设计的兴趣并没有减弱。这一天赋使她在制作自己的衣服时受益匪浅，有时还会为拉贾制作毛衣或衬衫。1930年夏天，应巴雷罗夫人的邀请，她去巴黎参加时装开幕式，巴雷罗夫人是她在古巴第一次见到她的。拉贾的典型特点是，他从不贬低别人的兴趣，不管别人的兴趣和他自己的兴趣有多远。在他们的一生中，罗莎琳德从事了许多事业，每一项事业都充满了热情;他总是鼓励这些冒险。

    Krishna was also in France at this time, where his difficulties with the  Theosophists did not seem to interfere with his success. On 23 October  1930 Rosalind wrote to her mother, Sophia from Paris. 
    Evidently Krishnaji gave a marvelous lecture in Strasbourg and the  papers gave good reviews. They said that except for Maurice Cheva- lier, Krishnamurti was the only one who could attract thousands. He  read his lecture in French . . . 
    Along with the teas and receptions that they all attended in Paris, as  well as art exhibitions, and lovely weekends in the country house of  Mme de Manziarly at La Tours, Rosalind was aware of the Depression.  ?(r)We hear on all sides how everyone is financially hard hit in last  week's stock exchange. Conditions are bad all over the world. I expect  California is better off than anyplace.' 
此时克里希纳也在法国，在那里，他与神智学者之间的困难似乎并没有妨碍他的成功。1930年10月23日，罗莎琳德从巴黎写信给她的母亲索菲亚。
显然，克里希那吉在斯特拉斯堡做了一次精彩的演讲，报纸也给予了好评。他们说，除了莫里斯・切瓦列尔，克里希那穆提是唯一一个能吸引成千上万人的人。他用法语读他的讲稿
除了他们在巴黎参加的茶会和招待会，还有艺术展览，以及在拉图尔的曼齐亚利夫人的乡间别墅度过的愉快周末，罗莎琳德意识到了经济大萧条。我们听到各方都说每个人在上周的股票交易中都受到了经济上的重创。世界各地的情况都很糟糕。我认为加州比其他任何地方都好。”

    Rosalind had a more personal worry that month in Paris. She found  that she was pregnant. Rather than feeling delighted as she normally  should have, for she and Raja had been hoping for some years to have  a child, she was in despair. Krishna had recently been reiterating his  old view that none of those close to him should have children but  must keep themselves free and pure for ?(r)the Work'. That she was  driven to consider having an abortion in Switzerland must be taken as  an indication not only of her despair, but also of her initial willingness  to be guided by Krishna's attitude; and one might wonder why she felt  she could not discuss her predicament with the person who should be  most concerned ⌒ her husband. She might have guessed that Raja would be totally opposed to such a course. Fortunately for me, whose future  was at stake, Rosalind on her own suddenly felt an abortion was all  wrong, no matter what Krishna would say, and decided to keep her  baby. However, she had gone through a considerable amount of stress  over the whole situation and on this she would blame a very difficult  pregnancy. 

那个月在巴黎，罗莎琳德有一个更私人的担忧。她发现自己怀孕了。她没有像往常那样感到高兴，因为她和拉贾多年来一直希望有一个孩子，她感到绝望。克里希纳最近一直在重申他的旧观点，即与他亲近的人都不应该有孩子，而必须保持自己的自由和纯洁，以从事“工作”。她被迫考虑在瑞士堕胎，这不仅表明了她的绝望，也表明了她最初愿意接受克里希纳态度的指导;有人可能会奇怪，为什么她不能和最应该关心她丈夫的人讨论她的困境。她可能已经猜到拉贾会完全反对这种做法。幸运的是，我的未来岌岌可危，罗莎琳德突然觉得堕胎是完全错误的，不管克里希纳会说什么，她决定留下她的孩子。然而，在整个情况下，她经历了相当大的压力，她认为这是一个非常困难的怀孕。

    On first hearing her news, Krishna displayed the same displeasure  that he had shown when she married Raja. It was a reaction Krishna  showed to anyone close to him who tried to pursue a life apart from  efforts on his behalf. More than one person of talent was driven to  abandon a promising career ⌒ fortunately not all succumbed. In this  case, another reason may have been an emotional reaction he had at  the thought of them having a child. When Nitya died Krishna had  assumed that Rosalind would then be closest to him. Her marriage to  Raja had probably been a shock that he had to endure in isolation. For  them to have a baby was at the very least a further affront. 
第一次听到她的消息时，克里希纳表现出和她嫁给拉贾时一样的不悦。这是克里希纳对任何亲近他的人的反应，他们试图追求一种生活，而不是代表他努力。不止一个有才华的人被迫放弃了前途光明的事业，幸运的是并不是所有人都屈服了。在这种情况下，另一个原因可能是他想到他们要生孩子时的情绪反应。尼提亚死后，克里希纳以为罗莎琳德会是他最亲近的人。她与拉贾的婚姻对他来说可能是一个打击，他不得不独自忍受。对他们来说，生孩子至少是一种进一步的侮辱。

    The serene Sicilian town of Taormina, perched above pine-fringed  coves of pellucid water, under the volcanic shadow of Mount Etna,  was still a very special place to Krishna. Here he and Nitya had been  sequestered in 1913 during the guardianship trial between their father  and Mrs Besant. Here he claimed to have seen the Lord Buddha.  Taormina exudes romance and mystery, from its streets bordered with  small shops of unaffected charm, to its ancient Greek amphitheatre and  the ever-present Mount Etna, sometimes clad in snow and sometimes  in sulphurous fumes, its spluttering flames licking a night sky. 
宁静的西西里岛小镇陶尔米纳(Taormina)坐落在埃特纳火山(Mount Etna)的火山阴影下，松树环绕的清澈海水海湾之上，对克里希纳来说仍然是一个非常特殊的地方。1913年，在他们父亲和贝赞特夫人的监护权审判期间，他和尼提亚被隔离在这里。在这里他声称见过佛陀。陶尔米纳散发着浪漫和神秘的气息，从街道两旁的小商店，质朴的魅力，到古希腊圆形剧场，以及永远存在的埃特纳火山，有时被雪覆盖，有时被硫磺烟雾覆盖，其飞溅的火焰舔舐着夜空。

    Krishna, Raja and Rosalind came there in late autumn, out of season,  with few tourists ⌒ leaving them in happy solitude. In this setting  whatever resentment Krishna may have felt about Rosalind's pregnancy  dropped away. 
    It was he who helped her tenderly through the first months of  discomfort. He believed himself to have healing gifts and, whether  or not this was true, he certainly never shirked the attempt to bring  comfort to the ill. Raja on the other hand was of a squeamish nature,  fainted easily at the sight of blood, and having a low threshold of pain  himself, identified too readily with another's affliction. But those six  weeks were a rare period of closencss and sanctuary between the three  of them. 
克里希纳、拉贾和罗莎琳德在深秋的时候来到这里，这不是季节，很少有游客离开他们，让他们快乐地独处。在这种情况下，克里希纳对罗莎琳德怀孕的任何怨恨都消失了。
是他温柔地帮助她度过了最初几个月的不适。他相信自己有治愈的天赋，不管这是真的还是假的，他肯定从不逃避给病人带来安慰的尝试。另一方面，拉贾生性神经质，一看到血就容易晕倒，他自己的疼痛阈值也很低，太容易对别人的痛苦感同身受。但那六周是他们三人之间罕有的亲密和庇护期。

    In December Rosalind went back to Ommen while Raja accompanied  Krishna to Greece. Krishna was bowled over by the Parthenon. Although  it was unusual for him to become so ecstatic over man-made beauty, he  used to tell me how he had fallen to his knees and kissed the soil when  he first saw it. He found Greece altogether a stimulating experience and  his talks, if the size of the crowds are a measure, were an overwhelming  success. He said later that he was even told that if he stayed they  would make him the mayor of Athens. Krishna had a tendency to  invest such comments with more significance than was intended and  they sometimes went to his head. The loving, mystical nature that had  been his at Taormina took a quicksilver turn in Athens. He and Raja had  been put up in the Grande Bretagne hotel, and it was here that they  had their first major confrontation. While the memory of what led to it  has dimmed, the scene that followed was never erased from Raja's mind.  Krishna had gone back upon confirmed arrangements which put Raja in  a very bad position with their hosts in Athens. Raja was so exasperated  at once again bearing the brunt of antagonism that rightfully ought not  to have been directed at him, that he said to Krishna, ?°You ought to be  exposed.' 
12月，罗莎琳德回到阿曼，而拉贾陪同克里希纳去了希腊。克里希纳被帕台农神庙所倾倒。虽然对他来说，对人造美如此着迷是不寻常的，但他曾经告诉我，当他第一次看到它时，他是如何跪下来亲吻土壤的。他发现希腊是一次令人兴奋的经历，如果以人群的规模作为衡量标准，他的演讲取得了压倒性的成功。他后来说，他甚至被告知，如果他留下来，他们会让他当雅典市长。克里希纳倾向于赋予这些评论更多的意义，而这些评论有时会进入他的头脑。他在陶尔米纳时所表现出来的爱与神秘的天性，在雅典突然发生了变化。他和拉贾被安置在大布列塔尼酒店，在这里他们发生了第一次重大冲突。虽然导致它的记忆已经模糊，但随后的场景从未从拉贾的脑海中抹去。克里希纳违背了已经确认的安排，这使拉贾在雅典的东道主面前处于非常不利的地位。拉贾又一次被不该针对他的敌意激怒了，他对克里希纳说:“你应该暴露。”

    Whereupon Krishna had laughed and replied, ?(r)Go ahead, try it, who  would ever believe you against me?'  Of course he was perfectly right, as many similar incidents throughout  the years would corroborate. 
克里希纳笑着回答说:“去吧，试试吧，谁会相信你反对我呢?”当然，他是完全正确的，多年来发生的许多类似事件都证实了这一点。

    It is difficult for those of us not inculcated with the concepts of karma,  dharma and reincarnation, to understand exactly what motivated Raja  to give his life so unstintingly to the work around Krishna, as well  as to the man himself. He had agreed to take on a task and with his  sense of perfection he would let nothing distract him from giving it his  total concentration. That the task would have difficulties beyond his  imagining was beside the point. He did not doubt that Rosalind was  firmly at his side in spirit and that they were bound to this common  purpose. Even so, throughout the next thirty years there would be  occasions when he felt he could take no more and would offer to  leave. But Krishna would prevail upon him to stay and would go to  any length of apology, written and verbal, to make things right again.  Of course there was no real right, nor could there be. And the scenes  and despair would become more and more intense over the years. 
对于我们这些没有被灌输过因果报应、佛法和轮回概念的人来说，很难理解到底是什么促使拉贾如此无私地为克里希纳周围的工作以及他自己付出生命。他已经同意接受一项任务，由于他的完美感，他不会让任何事情分散他的注意力。这项任务的困难超出他的想象，这是无关紧要的。他毫不怀疑罗莎琳德在精神上坚定地站在他的一边，他们是为了这个共同的目标而团结在一起的。即便如此，在接下来的三十年里，有时他觉得再也受不了了，就提出离开。但克里希纳会说服他留下来，不惜一切代价向他道歉，无论是书面的还是口头的，都要把事情纠正过来。当然没有真正的权利，也不可能有。随着时间的推移，这些场景和绝望变得越来越强烈。

    Both Raja and Rosalind wanted their child to be born in America,  and they were planning to sail back together in good time. This was to  be one of the rare occasions when Raja, perhaps still smarting from the  episode in Athens, had allowed himself to leave Krishna, who had taken  a brief side trip to Romania, where he had been invited by the Queen.  Just before sailing for America, Raja received a cable that Krishna had  been poisoned. The Queen, suspecting a plot, had him taken off the  train before the scheduled stop, but even so he suddenly fell deathly ill.  (Many years later, in 1946, the doctor who had treated him in Romania  showed up in Ojai during another serious illness and confirmed this  story.) 
拉贾和罗莎琳德都希望他们的孩子在美国出生，他们计划在合适的时候一起乘船回来。这是拉贾为数不多的离开克里希纳的机会之一，也许他还在为雅典那件事耿耿于心，克里希纳应女王的邀请去罗马尼亚做了一次短暂的短途旅行。就在启程去美国之前，拉贾收到了克里希纳被投毒的电报。女王怀疑这是一个阴谋，在火车预定停靠站之前把他带下了火车，但即便如此，他还是突然病倒了。(许多年后，1946年，在罗马尼亚治疗过他的医生在另一场重病期间出现在奥海，证实了这个故事。)

    That night in Ommen Raja, sometimes in tears, paced the floor until  dawn, torn between his two responsibilities ⌒ to go to Krishna, who  might be dying, or to accompany his wife, still in a frail condition, to  America. He went to Romania and was not to see my mother or me  until I was six weeks old. 
那天晚上，在欧门，拉贾有时流着泪，在地板上踱来踱去，直到黎明。他在两件事之间摇摆不定:一是去看即将死去的克里希纳，二是陪他虚弱的妻子去美国。他去了罗马尼亚，直到我六周大的时候才见到我妈妈和我。

    Rosalind, once back in America, was in the loving circle of her family.  She was also surrounded by dear friends, with one of whom, Beatrice  Wood, she had agreed to start a clothes designing business. Now she  had to tell Beatrice that there would be a slight postponement of their  plans. 
罗莎琳德一回到美国，就回到了充满爱的家庭圈子里。她身边还有一群好朋友，其中有一个叫比阿特丽斯・伍德(Beatrice Wood)，她同意和她一起开一家服装设计公司。现在她不得不告诉比阿特丽斯，他们的计划要稍微推迟一点。

    ?(r)Don't worry,' she said, ?(r)as soon as the baby's born I'll give it to my  mother to take care of and we'll carry right on.' 
    Beatrice's scepticism about this solution turned out to be justified, for  when Rosalind saw her baby she told Beatrice she could not possibly  hand me over to her mother.> This was perhaps just as well for Beatrice,  who then added ceramics to her other artistic talents and in this medium  later became a world-famous artist. 
“别担心，”她说，“孩子一出生，我就把他交给我妈妈照顾，我们就继续生活。”
比阿特丽斯对这个解决方案的怀疑被证明是有道理的，因为当罗莎琳德看到她的孩子时，她告诉比阿特丽斯她不可能把我交给她母亲。这也许对比阿特丽斯来说是件好事，后来她在其他艺术才能中又增加了陶瓷，并在这一媒介中成为了世界著名的艺术家。

    Raja had sent Rosalind a list of Indian names that he liked and Rosalind  chose the name Radha for me. From that time Raja would leave most  decisions concerning my upbringing to my mother, while standing in  the wings to be sure all was well. He told Rosalind that he would  intervene only if he felt something was going wrong. 
拉贾给罗莎琳德寄了一份他喜欢的印度名字的名单，罗莎琳德为我选择了拉达这个名字。从那时起，拉贾就把关于我成长的大部分决定都留给我母亲，自己站在旁边，确保一切顺利。他告诉罗莎琳德，只有当他觉得有什么不对劲的时候，他才会介入。

    In July, after a very difficult childbirth, Rosalind's recovery was  complicated by a bad sore on her back which, aggravated by the  nurses' carelessness in the hospital, became infected and had to be  removed immediately. It was found to be malignant and the doctor  told her that this was the most serious form of skin cancer and that  she would only live from two to ten years. She never told anyone this  news (until she told me forty years later). But for the next few years  she did not doubt the doctor, who had also advised her not to have any  more children as another childbirth would be even more difficult than  her first. 
7月，罗莎琳德经历了一次非常困难的分娩后，她的背部出现了严重的疼痛，由于医院护士的粗心大意而恶化，感染了，不得不立即切除。医生告诉她，这是最严重的一种皮肤癌，她只能活2到10年。她从来没有告诉过任何人这个消息(直到四十年后她才告诉我)。但在接下来的几年里，她没有怀疑医生，医生也建议她不要再生孩子了，因为再生孩子会比第一次更困难。

    Raja returned to Ojai in September. He arrived at Arya Vihara late at night and Rosalind excitedly hurried him in to see his new baby. She concealed her disappointment when she saw that he was far more excited to tell her about the world's economic situation and America going off the gold standard. She did not then appreciate that Raja would continue  to turn to great financial advantage his observations while travelling.  He seemed to have a sixth sense about investments. In 1929 he had  warned his friend Louis Zalk to sell out of the stock market. Louis  had the greatest respect for Raja's karmic past as well as his present  capabilities, but had wondered what a young Hindu could tell him,  a successful American industrialist, about the stock market. His own  Theosophical background, however, persuaded Louis that he should not  totally ignore Raja. He sold half his holdings. When, a short time later,  that half was all he had left, he acquired a lifelong confidence in Raja's  financial acumen. 
拉贾于9月回到奥海。他到达艾莉亚维哈拉时已经晚了，罗莎琳德兴奋地催促他去看他刚出生的孩子。她当她看到他兴奋得多时，她隐藏了自己的失望，告诉她世界经济形势以及美国退出金本位制。她当时没有意识到，拉贾在旅行时的观察将继续为他带来巨大的经济利益。他似乎对投资有第六感。1929年，他曾警告他的朋友路易斯・扎克(Louis Zalk)抛售股票。路易斯对拉贾过去的业力和他现在的能力非常尊重，但他想知道一个年轻的印度人能告诉他，一个成功的美国实业家，关于股票市场。然而，他自己的神智学背景说服了路易，他不应该完全忽视拉贾。他卖掉了一半的股份。不久之后，当他只剩下那一半财产时，他对拉贾的财务智慧产生了终生的信心。

    That night Rosalind paid no more attention to Raja's words than he  did to his baby, but when I suddenly opened my eyes and looked at  my father with a smile, he was quite overwhelmed. His next reaction,  which Rosalind remembers came at that moment or shortly after, was  much more difficult for her to understand. Raja remarked that now they  had their baby there was no more reason for them to live as man and  wife. It may have been that he still retained an orthodox Theosophical  attitude toward marriage, that sex was only for having children, or it  may have been a poorly timed quip (of which he was capable) not  meant to be taken literally. Neither of them had a tendency to discuss  their private thoughts, being perhaps too surrounded by so many other  people's personal problems. In any event there was at this point a vast  gap in understanding between them, for Rosalind took that comment,  which Raja would forget having made, at face value and felt rejected as  a wife. Whatever the factors involved, a side of their marriage that had  never been too satisfactory was brought to an abruptend. The strong and  affectionate friendship between them would remain intact, but Rosalind  would feel more and more that her marriage was not complete. When  she later asked Raja for her freedom, he expressed a determination,  on principle, that they should not separate, partly because they had a  child, but mostly because he felt an obligation to Mrs Besant, who had  presided in person and in spirit over their wedding. 
那天晚上，罗莎琳德没有把拉贾的话放在心上，就像他没有把自己的孩子放在心上一样。但当我突然睁开眼睛，面带微笑地看着父亲时，他完全不知所措。他的下一个反应，罗莎琳德记得就在那一刻或之后不久，对她来说更难理解。拉贾说，现在他们有了孩子，他们再也没有理由像夫妻一样生活了。这可能是因为他对婚姻仍然保留着正统的神智论态度，认为性只是为了生孩子，或者这可能是一个不合时宜的俏皮话(他有能力)，不打算从字面上理解。他们两人都不喜欢讨论自己的私人想法，可能是被太多其他人的个人问题包围了。无论如何，在这一点上，他们之间的理解存在着巨大的差距，因为罗莎琳德把这句拉贾会忘记说过的话当真了，觉得自己作为妻子被拒绝了。不管涉及到什么因素，他们婚姻中一向不太令人满意的一面突然出现了。他们之间深厚而深情的友谊将保持不变，但罗莎琳德会越来越感到她的婚姻并不完整。当她后来要求拉贾释放她时，他原则上表示了决心，他们不应该分开，部分原因是他们有一个孩子，但主要是因为他觉得对贝赞特夫人有义务，贝赞特夫人亲自和精神上主持了他们的婚礼。

    Rosalind thought she faced an early death and would have to leave  behind her young child, to whom she wanted to give as good a start  in life as possible. Yet she was still full of life and high spirits and the  eternal optimism of the young, who see death as a remote abstraction.  She wanted the most out of what life she might have left to her. When  Raja said they could maintain their independence within their marriage,  she took him at his word. 
罗莎琳德认为自己可能会英年早逝，不得不离开年幼的孩子，她想给孩子一个尽可能好的人生开端。然而，她仍然充满活力，精神抖擞，有着年轻人永远的乐观精神，他们把死亡视为一种遥远的抽象。她想要最大限度地利用她可能剩下的生活。当拉贾说他们可以在婚姻中保持独立时，她相信了他的话。
